Measure 1.1: Machine-readable marking techniques

Signatories will implement a marking solution that consists of at least one machine-readable
marking technique, as detailed below, which, in conjunction with their respective detection
mechanism, meets the level of effectiveness, reliability, robustness, and interoperability
required by Article 50(2) AI Act and Commitment 3 of the Code.

So long as no single marking technique can, under the state of the art, ensure by itself
compliance with the four requirements in Article 50(2) AI Act of effectiveness, interoperability,
robustness, and reliability for audio, images, video, and containerised text, in particular for
content that can be disseminated online, Signatories will implement a multi-layered marking
approach to ensure that the outputs of their generative AI systems are marked with at least two
layers of machine-readable marking, as specified in Sub-measures 1.1.1 and 1.1.2 below.

To enable a proportionate implementation of the above requirements, a single layer of marking
will be considered sufficient in specific cases where a generative AI system is embedded in
physical products capable of generating synthetic outputs in a technically controlled and closed
environment mainly instructive in nature. This applies to the extent effective technical measures
are embedded in the product to prevent the output from leaving the environment of the
product, for example by being captured or exported and disseminated externally. Moreover,
given that free-form text cannot transport metadata, a single-layer of marking as described in
Sub-measure 1.1.2 is considered sufficient to comply with the requirements of Article 50(2) AI
Act for this specific type of content.

In the future, Signatories will also be able to demonstrate compliance with Article 50(2) AI Act
through the use of alternative marking technique(s) (possibly a single marking technique),
provided that they can prove to the competent market surveillance authorities, based on
recognised performance evaluation methods and benchmarks, that their technique(s) achieve
at least the same, if not superior, level of robustness, reliability, effectiveness, and
interoperability, as required by Article 50(2) AI Act and Commitment 3 of the Code. Pending the
emergence of recognised performance evaluation methods and benchmarks, and as specified
in Measure 4.2, Signatories may demonstrate compliance through documented internal testing
against the requirements in Commitment 3, subject to review by the competent market
surveillance authorities.

                                                            8
The marking techniques may be implemented at different stages of the value chain (e.g., by the
provider of the AI system itself or by an upstream model provider) and may also be provided by
third parties (in particular, technology providers specialised in marking techniques and detection
mechanisms for AI transparency). Signatories may rely on those third-party technical solutions
without prejudice to the Signatories' own responsibility under the AI Act and the Code to ensure
that the outputs of their AI systems are suitably and compliantly marked.

Sub-measure 1.1.1: Digitally signed metadata
If content is generated, manipulated or exported in a data format that supports attaching
metadata (e.g., an audio, image, video, or containerised text), Signatories will record information
in the metadata on whether the content is AI-generated or manipulated.

All recorded information will be digitally signed and time-stamped (on systems where time
information is available) in a secure and tamper-evident manner. Signatories will adopt means
for ensuring the secure usage of the signing certificates and the confidentiality of the associated
private keys, except in circumstances where the deployment context does not permit the secure
handling or provisioning of the key, for example in a local deployment scenario.

Signatories are encouraged to implement richer metadata in accordance with Measure 1.3., ,
without including privacy-sensitive or business-sensitive information. In cases where such
information is strictly necessary or inserted upon request of an end-user, it will be compliant
with applicable EU data protection law and is encouraged to be placed in a metadata
placeholder separate from the AI transparency metadata.

Sub-measure 1.1.2: Imperceptible watermarking
Signatories will ensure that AI-generated or manipulated content is marked with an
imperceptible watermark, with the exception of very short text. For free-form text longer than
200 tokens, watermarking still needs to be applied, even though it may have lower reliability
compared to that of watermarking very long text. To compensate for the potential lower
reliability of watermarking for free-form text, access to the corresponding detection solution
may be restricted to verified expert users as detailed in Sub-measure 2.1.2.

The imperceptible watermark will be embedded within the content in a manner that is difficult
for it to be separated from the content. The watermark is intended to serve as a robust
mechanism to complement the digitally signed metadata under Sub-measure 1.1.1.

The state of the art provides several strategies to embed watermarks in AI-generated or
manipulated content, for instance, applying the watermarking technique once the content has
been generated or manipulated (i.e. `post-hoc watermarking') or having the watermark
introduced during the inference operation of the generative AI system (i.e. `model
watermarking'). Signatories who provide generative AI models are encouraged to implement
watermarking at the model level and to enable the smooth integration of the watermarking at
the AI system's inference process, to facilitate compliance of downstream providers of
generative AI systems built on those models, in particular in a manner that helps these
downstream providers meet the quality requirements specified in Article 50(2) AI Act and in
Commitment 3 and that enables them to demonstrate compliance in line with Commitment 4.

Sub-measure 1.1.3: Fingerprinting or logging (optional)
Where appropriate and taking into account potential trade-offs related to privacy and security,
as well as scalability challenges and costs, Signatories may implement as an optional
supplementary measure fingerprinting or logging solutions for AI-generated or manipulated

                                                            9
content which allow for checking whether content has been generated or manipulated by their
AI system. For example, direct logging may be appropriate for text content, whereas
fingerprinting approaches may be preferable for audio and visual content.

The use of such techniques may be a supplementary solution to meet the quality requirements
specified in Article 50(2) AI Act and in Commitment 3 or to help reduce the cost of the detection
mechanism outlined in Commitment 2. However, relying on fingerprinting or logging alone is
not considered sufficient to meet the quality requirements specified in Article 50(2) AI Act and
in Commitment 3.

Where Signatories implement fingerprinting or logging, they will ensure that it is limited to the
output data and that it is implemented in a secure and privacy-preserving manner, in compliance
with EU data protection law and respect for media freedom, editorial independence and
journalistic source protection obligations. Deployers and other users of the generative AI
systems will be given access to the logging policies and granted control over what is logged and
how data is stored, accessed and how long it is retained, with clear procedures for limited
retention periods, access controls, security and other safeguards for data minimisation, as well
as secure and immediate deletion of logs containing output data after its intended purpose has
been fulfilled.

This Sub-measure is confined to the Signatory's own design and implementation of the AI system
and shall in no way be interpreted as creating a general commitment to log, monitor, or retain
prompts for the AI-generated or manipulated content or for user interactions.

Measure 1.2: Non-removal of markings

Without prejudice to the robustness requirement in Commitment 3, Signatories will make best
efforts to preserve metadata markings on input data and content generated or manipulated by
their AI system by applying the following cumulative measures:

a) Signatories will, to the extent technically feasible and recognisable as per open standards,
     retain, and abstain from intentionally altering or removing, existing metadata markings,
     where such content is used as input and subsequently transformed by their AI system into
     an output. This does not affect good faith, legitimate processing where the modification,
     transformation or replacement of existing metadata is necessary to maintain accurate and
     functional information following downstream processing or specific legitimate processing,
     such as for security audits and research purposes.

b) While Signatories recognise that downstream compliance and enforcement cannot be
     guaranteed, they will nevertheless include in the acceptable use policy, terms and
     conditions or the documentation accompanying their generative AI system a prohibition of
     the intentional removal of or tampering with metadata markings by deployers or any other
     third party. Exceptions to such a prohibition are the legitimate purposes referred to in point
     a). For AI systems and models provided under free and open-source licenses, it is sufficient
     for Signatories to alert users to this best practice in the documentation accompanying the
     AI system or model, without prejudice to the free and open-source nature of the license.

Measures specified in point a) above do not imply the responsibility of the Signatory for third-
party metadata markings, nor for compliance of third parties with the conditions specified in
point b).

                                                           10
Furthermore, Signatories will neither place or make available on the market, nor promote or
advertise the use of tools whose purpose is to circumvent the machine-readable markings
added to the AI-generated or manipulated content for transparency.

Signatories who operate an online platform or search engine, or who otherwise disseminate
content to the public, are encouraged to ensure that the online platform or the search engine
preserves metadata markings for AI-generated or manipulated content.

Measure 1.3: Transparency of the provenance information (optional)

Signatories are encouraged to incorporate richer information in the metadata pursuant to
Measure 1.1.1, to provide additional context and thereby contribute to increased integrity and
trust in the information ecosystem. In particular, Signatories are encouraged to consider relevant
standards to provide further information about the origin of AI-generated or manipulated
content across workflows, where technically feasible.

Signatories are encouraged to add or record relevant content provenance information within
content generated or manipulated by their AI systems, in particular the name of the AI system,
the company name of the AI provider, and a timestamp indicating when the content was
generated or manipulated. Additionally, Signatories may also include the underlying AI model
identifier and version number.

For AI-manipulated content, Signatories are encouraged to record information about the type
of operations performed by their AI system to modify the content (e.g., object removal).
Multiple discrete operations carried out by the AI system are recommended to be encoded into
a single metadata marker to limit complexity and reduce burden.

