Section 2: Labelling deep fakes and AI-generated
and manipulated published text applicable to
deployers of AI systems (Article 50(4) and (5) AI Act)

Objectives

The overarching objective of this Code of Practice ("Code") is to improve the functioning of the
internal market, to promote the uptake of human-centric and trustworthy artificial intelligence ("AI"),
while ensuring a high level of protection of health, safety, and fundamental rights enshrined in the
Charter, including democracy, the rule of law, and environmental protection, against harmful effects
of AI in the Union, and to support innovation pursuant to Article 1(1) AI Act.

To achieve this overarching objective, the specific objectives of this Section of the Code are:

a) to serve as a guiding document for demonstrating compliance with the obligations of
     deployers of generative AI systems provided for in Article 50(4) and (5) AI Act, while
     recognising that adherence to the Code does not constitute conclusive evidence of
     compliance with these obligations under the AI Act;

b) to ensure that deployers of AI systems that generate or manipulate image, audio or video
     content constituting a deep fake, or text published with the purpose of informing the public
     on matters of public interest comply with their obligations under Article 50(4) and (5) AI Act,
     and

c) to enable the competent market surveillance authorities to assess compliance by deployers
     who rely on the Code to demonstrate compliance with those obligations under Article 50(4)
     and (5) AI Act in a consistent, predictable, and uniform manner across the Union.

Recitals

Whereas:

a) Clear and distinguishable disclosure: Signatories recognise that advances in generative AI
     enable deployers of AI systems to generate or manipulate content that looks increasingly
     realistic, making it more difficult for people to distinguish it from authentic content. This
     highlights the need for transparency to protect public trust, safeguard democratic discourse,
     and inform individual decision-making. With the assistance of AI systems, deployers can
     generate or manipulate deep fakes that resemble existing persons, objects, places, entities
     or events, falsely appearing authentic or truthful to natural persons, as well as text on
     matters of public interest that is published without human review and editorial control.
     Generation and dissemination of such content pose specific risks of deception and
     manipulation, undermining trust in the information ecosystem and threatening its integrity.
     Signatories acknowledge that clear and distinguishable disclosure of the artificial origin or
     modification of such content required under Article 50(4) and (5) AI Act is a necessary
     safeguard to make individuals aware and inform their decision-making. This safeguard is not
     aimed at providing individuals with information about the trustworthiness of the content,

                                                           26
     but rather at informing them about its artificial origin or the role of the AI system in
     manipulating the content.

b) Consistent and effective implementation: To make such disclosure clear and
     distinguishable for all natural persons, Signatories recognise the need for a certain level of
     uniformity in the disclosure methods as laid out in the Commitments of this Section of the
     Code. Such methods must be effective and aligned with the technical state of the art
     (including for user experience) to the extent feasible and appropriate for the context of
     dissemination. In particular, an optional EU icon provides an easy, practical and uniform
     pathway under the Code for compliance with Article 50(4) and (5) AI Act. At the same time,
     Signatories recognise the broad transversal scope of Article 50(4) AI Act as covering a
     multitude of use cases and contexts across sectors, media, platforms and modalities.
     Signatories acknowledge the need for a minimum level of uniformity and consistency
     regarding the implementation of the design and placement specifications for the icon or
     equivalent labels. At the same time, Signatories may further detail how to implement the
     measures envisaged in this Section of the Code in sector-specific good practices compliant
     with Article 50 AI Act and this Section of the Code.

c) Accessibility: Signatories recognise the importance of ensuring accessible disclosure of AI-
    generated or manipulated deep fakes and text published on matters of public interest within
    the scope of Article 50(4) AI Act, by taking into account the needs of different groups of
    vulnerable people. Disclosure should be designed to ensure it is easily perceivable and
    understandable by all natural persons, including persons with disabilities, children and the
    elderly.

d) Awareness and accountability: Signatories recognise that internal processes, literacy and
     awareness measures, and review mechanisms are essential for ensuring effective disclosure
     of AI-generated or manipulated deep fakes and text published on matters of public interest
     within the scope of Article 50(4) AI Act. To achieve this, Signatories commit to label such AI-
     generated and manipulated content and to disclose it at the latest at the first exposure
     based on the design and placement specifications in this Code. Considering Signatories'
     available organisational resources and technical capacities, this also includes proportionate
     internal processes and measures which aim to ensure that individuals are informed about
     the artificial nature of the content to which they are exposed, including by making publicly
     available information about the use by the Signatory of the EU icon or equivalent labels and
     their meaning.

e) Promoting an ecosystem of transparency and innovation: Signatories acknowledge that
     compliance with Article 50(4) AI Act is not a check-box exercise but aims to create an
     ecosystem of transparency that ties into organisational practices, technological
     developments, and individuals' awareness. It has the shared goal of empowering individuals
     to make informed decisions by enabling them to understand the origin and nature of
     synthetic content. In such an ecosystem, Signatories recognise that the Code allows for
     continuous developments in a fast-changing technological landscape and in light of the
     transversal scope of Article 50(4) AI Act. Key factors in such a structure of the Code are to
     build an ecosystem that preserves uniformity and recognisability, while allowing for new
     evidence to be gathered and adapted into good practices that support the Code and
     compliance with Article 50(4) and (5) AI Act.

                                                           27
f) Additional safeguards under other Union and national law: Signatories acknowledge that
     the transparency obligations under the AI Act apply in parallel to, and do not affect, other
     legal obligations or requirements that may apply to the creation, distribution or use of AI-
     generated or manipulated deep fakes and text published on matters of public interest under
     applicable Union legislation (e.g., on data protection, consumer protection, digital services,
     intellectual property, media law, political advertising, criminal law and other relevant
     regulatory frameworks).

Commitments

This Section of the Code applies only to Signatories in so far as they are deployers of AI systems
that generate or manipulate image, audio or video content constituting a deep fake1 or text
published with the purpose of informing the public on matters of public interest falling within
the scope of Article 50(4) AI Act. Each reference below to "content", "deep fake" or "published
text" implies content that is i) AI-generated or manipulated and that qualifies as a deep fake
under Article 3(60) AI Act (referred to as "deep fake"), or ii) AI-generated or manipulated text
published with the purpose of informing the public on matters of public interest, without human
review or editorial control and where no natural or legal person holds editorial responsibility for
the publication of the content (referred to as "published text" or "text published on matters of
public interest").

Considering the diversity of deployers and contexts in which deep fakes and published text may
be created and disseminated, Signatories and the associations of which they are part may jointly
establish common good practices for their sector or industry, which could provide further detail
regarding implementation of the Commitments and Measures specified in this Section of the
Code. Any such good practices should be fully aligned with the measures set out below, without
preventing Signatories from tailoring the disclosure practices to their specific sectors to account
for sector specificities and existing rules, nor from providing additional transparency, where
relevant. To ensure transparency, accountability and to enable monitoring by competent market
surveillance authorities, sectoral good practices established in accordance with this paragraph
will be made publicly available online.

In this Section, the terms "will", "encouraged" and "may" should be interpreted in the following
way:

     1. `will' is used for mandatory measures under the Code that need to be met to be
          compliant with Article 50(4) or (5) AI Act and that will be monitored by competent
          market surveillance authorities;

     2. `encouraged' is used for optional measures under the Code that are not legally required
          and are purely voluntary but are nevertheless recommended;

     3. `may' is used for optional measures under the Code that are not legally required and
          are purely voluntary or provide deployers with flexibility on how to implement the
          respective measure or commitment.

1 A deep fake is defined in Article 3(60) AI Act as AI-generated or manipulated image, audio or video
content that resembles existing persons, objects, places, entities or events and would falsely appear to a
person to be authentic or truthful.

                                                            28
Commitment 1: Disclosure of Deep Fakes and Published Text

LEGAL TEXT: Article 50(4) and 50(5) and recitals 133 and 135 AI Act

4. Deployers of an AI system that generates or manipulates image, audio or video content
constituting a deep fake, shall disclose that the content has been artificially generated or
manipulated. This obligation shall not apply where the use is authorised by law to detect,
prevent, investigate or prosecute criminal offence. Where the content forms part of an evidently
artistic, creative, satirical, fictional or analogous work or programme, the transparency
obligations set out in this paragraph are limited to disclosure of the existence of such generated
or manipulated content in an appropriate manner that does not hamper the display or
enjoyment of the work.

Deployers of an AI system that generates or manipulates text which is published with the
purpose of informing the public on matters of public interest shall disclose that the text has been
artificially generated or manipulated. This obligation shall not apply where the use is authorised
by law to detect, prevent, investigate or prosecute criminal offences or where the AI-generated
content has undergone a process of human review or editorial control and where a natural or
legal person holds editorial responsibility for the publication of the content.

5. The information referred to in paragraphs 1 to 4 shall be provided to the natural persons
concerned in a clear and distinguishable manner at the latest at the time of the first interaction
or exposure. The information shall conform to the applicable accessibility requirements.

To fulfil their obligations under Article 50(4) and (5) AI Act, Signatories commit to ensure
consistent and effective disclosure of the artificial origin of deep fakes or published text.

Signatories commit to implement such disclosure through the available EU icon provided in
Annex 1 of the Code or through an equivalent icon or label that complies with the design and
placement specifications as described in the following measures.

Signatories may integrate the icon or equivalent label into their existing disclosure practices
under applicable sectoral Union and national legislation or professional codes of conduct, to the
extent that those practices comply with this Section of the Code and Article 50(4) and (5) AI Act.

Signatories recognise that the act of labelling does not exempt them from other Union and
Member States' laws, such as those related to the protection of third parties' rights and
freedoms, including applicable legal requirements regarding obtaining consent of the depicted
persons or rightsholders.

Measure 1.1: Design specifications

Where visual disclosure is possible, Signatories will implement the following design
specifications:

a) The icon or equivalent label will comprise, as the main visual element, the capitalised
     acronym "AI" in the English language (e.g., an `AI' icon), unless use of English is incompatible
     with applicable national laws on the use of languages in commercial or administrative
     matters in which case the acronym may be disclosed in the national language. The letters in
     the acronym will have the same vertical dimension. If resized, the proportions of the letters
     must be preserved.

                                                           29
b) Additionally, Signatories are encouraged to supplement the acronym in the icon with
    information regarding whether the deep fake or published text is manipulated or generated
    with AI in an (interactive) second layer where this is technically implementable, in the icon
    or next to the icon (e.g., text indicating "modified" or "generated", as illustrated in Annex 1).
    Signatories are furthermore encouraged to disclose in the (interactive) second layer what
    has been modified by the AI system (e.g., text or pictogram describing that a face has been
    altered).

c) The icon or equivalent label may appear in different sizes depending on the context, as long
    as Signatories ensure that the disclosure is clear and distinguishable to natural persons. The
    icon or equivalent label may be expressed in different styles (e.g., contrast ratio, colour, or
    typography), as long as it remains clear, accessible, and distinguishable, i.e., readable and
    recognisable to natural persons.

An EU icon following the design specifications for visual disclosure is publicly available for
everyone to use freely (see Annex 1).

Where visual disclosure is not possible (e.g., audio-only content), Signatories will implement
the following design specifications:

a) The disclosure will include, at the beginning of the deep fake itself, a short audible disclaimer
    in plain and simple natural language, either in the same language as the content or in
    English, disclosing the artificial origin of the audio deep fake in a perceivable manner.

b) Where appropriate, the audio disclaimer will be complemented with information regarding
    whether it is AI-generated or manipulated. Signatories are furthermore encouraged to
    disclose what has been modified by the AI system.

Alternatively, Signatories may develop and rely on other forms of audible disclosures (e.g., an
earcon) ahead of the development of a common EU-wide audio solution by the Task Force,
described in Measure 1.3, if the deployment of such an audible disclosure solution is
accompanied by appropriate awareness raising measures (e.g., public information campaigns,
repeated explanatory notices or disclaimers) to ensure broad understanding of the solution by
the natural persons exposed to the deep fake audio.

When applying the design specifications of this measure, Signatories will consider the
potentially diverse composition of the audience exposed to the content (including diverging
levels of AI and digital literacy, language proficiency or general knowledge, and vulnerable user
categories such as children and the elderly), and the potentially sensitive nature of the context
in which the content is used and disseminated (e.g., in the financial, medical, education or other
sensitive sectors).

Signatories will ensure accessible disclosure with respect to different content modalities and
contexts in accordance with applicable Union law, in particular Directive (EU) 2019/882 (the
European Accessibility Act) and Directive (EU) 2016/2102 (the Web Accessibility Directive). This
includes but is not limited to application of:

a) audio descriptions or alternative cues for visual disclosure elements;

b) tactile and haptic cues for audio-only content, considering the needs of end-users with
    hearing impediments (e.g., a vibration alert before audio playing identifying that the audio
    contains deep fake content);

c) high contrast icons or equivalent labels and screen-reader compatibility, including for end-
    users with colour vision deficiencies;

                                                           30
d) detectability of the icon or equivalent label by assistive technologies.

Signatories are encouraged to implement any available relevant accessibility standard or
guideline, including but not limited to the harmonised standard ETSI EN 301 549 "Accessibility
requirements for ICT products and services" or the W3C Web Content Accessibility Guidelines
2.1, to the extent the Signatories' services or products fall within the scope of the applicable
accessibility requirements and such standards or guidelines.

Signatories that are also providers of online platforms or online search engines, including
designated very large online platforms or very large online search engines subject to the
obligation to put in place risk mitigation measures under Article 35(1) Digital Services Act (DSA),
are encouraged to use the EU icon or another equivalently compliant solution to enable
deployers of AI systems to implement their labelling obligation in a manner compliant with this
Section of the Code and Article 50(4) AI Act (e.g., by making disclosure solutions available in the
platform upload interfaces for deployers).

Measure 1.2: Placement specifications

To meet the legal requirements of labelling in a clear and distinguishable manner at the latest at
the time of first exposure under Article 50(5) AI Act and considering the dissemination of
published text and deep fakes in particular across online platforms or search engines in both
offline and online environments, Signatories will apply the placement specifications described
in this measure.

Sub-measure 1.2.1: Overarching principles for placement specifications
Signatories will apply the following overarching principles applicable to all content modalities
and contexts, with the exception of deep fakes that are part of artistic, creative, satirical, fictional
or analogous works that are subject to specific disclosure regime specified in Commitment 3:

    a) Considering the content format and dissemination context, the icon or equivalent label
         will be placed in an appropriate and perceivable manner that ensures immediate
         recognition by natural persons without requiring user (inter)action or sustained
         attention.

    b) The icon or equivalent label will remain visible at least for a sufficient duration to be
         noticed under normal exposure conditions to ensure perceivability.

    c) The icon or equivalent label will be directly embedded into the content, unless
         equivalent alternatives to an embedded icon are available (e.g., a user interface overlay
         that for natural persons appears to be on the content), as long as Signatories follow the
         placement specifications in this measure and, to their best effort aim to ensure
         disclosure of the deep fake or published text takes into account the distribution and
         dissemination chain of the content.

    d) The icon or equivalent label will be clearly perceivable and distinguishable at the latest
         at the time of first exposure of a natural person to the deep fake or published text (e.g.,
         by maintaining sufficient spacing to other overlay elements, disclaimers, and
         sound/visual on-screen/on-display elements and remain visible against any
         background).

Signatories are encouraged to collaborate on a best effort basis with actors whose services or
products they use to further distribute or disseminate the deep fake or published text (e.g.,
publishers, online platforms or retail) to preserve the icon or equivalent label with the objective

                                                           31
of ensuring that the required disclosure accompanies the deep fake or published text
throughout its further distribution, whether online or offline and across the entire content
creation, distribution and dissemination chain. This encouragement also applies to disclosures
pursuant to Commitments 3 and 4 of this Section of the Code.

Sub-measure 1.2.2: Placement specifications where visual disclosure is possible
In addition to the overarching principles, Signatories will implement the following placement
specifications where visual disclosure is possible:

a) The icon or equivalent label will appear in an appropriate place where no intervening overlay
    elements exist (e.g., in the top right corner of an image or video deep fake).

b) To account for situations where different natural persons may be exposed to deep fake video
    at different moments (e.g., live content) and to account for downstream use (e.g.,
    screenshots and clipped fragments), Signatories will display the icon or equivalent label at
    the beginning of the video as well as, where possible, at regular intervals throughout the
    video and, at a minimum, after interruptions (e.g., after commercial or advertising breaks).
    Where possible and appropriate depending on the context, Signatories are furthermore
    encouraged to display the icon or equivalent label throughout the deep fake video or during
    the deep fake part of the video, where the deep fake segment does not necessarily span the
    entire duration of the video.

c) Where a deep fake is exclusively used as part of a closed internal professional context (e.g.,
    for the purpose of training or informing employees), the disclosure may be placed in the
    user interface, physical setting or any other appropriate medium readily available to the
    natural persons exposed to the deep fake, informing them before being exposed to the deep
    fake, as long as it is clear and distinguishable for the natural persons involved in the
    professional setting.

d) For visual deep fakes, audible disclosures may only be implemented as an additional
    disclosure method and will always be accompanied by visual disclosures (e.g., where audio
    is part of the user experience or as appropriate for accessibility purposes).

e) For audio deep fakes, when a screen is available, an additional visual disclosure based on
    the icon or equivalent label will be made available (e.g., when a screen is available in a car
    or on a smartphone display), in addition to the audible disclaimer.

f) For published text, Signatories will place the icon or equivalent label, for example above or
    at the top of the text, near the headline of the text, or in the colophon at the beginning of
    the text, as long as placement is clear, consistent, and distinguishable for the end-user.
    Where appropriate, Signatories may label only that part of the text which is AI-generated or
    manipulated. For short text (single words or brief phrases), where labelling the text outputs
    would degrade readability and usability, Signatories must still carry out the labelling but may
    ensure disclosure through a contextual notice in the user interface (e.g., an indicator
    adjacent to the output, or disclosing that AI is used in the beginning of a user exposure
    session or when first time interacting with the content).

Sub-measure 1.2.3: Placement specifications where visual disclosure is not possible
In addition to the overarching principles, where visual disclosure is not possible, Signatories will
include an audible disclaimer at the latest at the time of the first exposure to the deep fake.
Additionally, audible cues may be used (e.g., tones or earcons) to support recognition.

                                                           32
In order to cater for downstream use (e.g., clipped audio fragments) and for long-form or live
exposure, Signatories will, where appropriate, supplement the initial audible disclaimer at the
beginning of the content with reminders at regular intervals (e.g., disclaimers, tones or earcons)
for the entire duration of the audio deep fake to ensure ongoing awareness, and at minimum
after interruptions (e.g., by advertisements).

Measure 1.3: Voluntary participation in a task force under the Code

Signatories are encouraged to support the work and activities of a dedicated task force under
the Code aimed at advancing the further development and usability of the EU icon as a minimum
state-of-the-art implementation. The task force will, inter alia, aim to:

a) further promote the uptake and development of the EU icon (incl. non-visual/audio-only
     versions of the icon);

b) update the EU icon to ensure state-of-art disclosure at all times including in line with user
     experience (UX) standards;

c) assess feasibility and work towards advancing technical solutions, including the
     development of an interactive second layer linked to the EU icon or other equivalent labels,
     which provide opportunities for the integration of the EU icon or equivalent label into online
     content dissemination services to provide end-users with additional information (e.g., type
     of AI-involvement in a deep fake or published text). This interactive second layer may be
     implemented to the extent feasible and practical, and in alignment with the technical
     marking solutions described in Section 1 of the Code, to ensure robustness of the
     information provided in the icon and the accompanying information;

d) work towards identifying common methods for disclosing the type of AI involvement in the
     case of AI manipulated deep fakes or published text, with a view to advancing consistency
     in the implementation among Signatories;

e) provide a forum for Signatories to exchange good practices across sectors and possibly to
     develop sectoral good practices regarding the disclosure of deep fakes and published text in
     line with this Section of the Code.

Signatories and relevant stakeholders from various sectors, including but not limited to
independent researchers, civil society organisations and national competent authorities, are
encouraged to participate in the task force.

Commitment 2: Internal Processes

To effectively fulfil and demonstrate compliance with the obligations under Article 50(4) and (5)
AI Act and the Commitments and Measures specified in this Section of the Code, Signatories
commit to put in place or maintain internal processes, awareness measures and review
mechanisms as specified in the measures below and proportionate to their size and available
resources.

Measure 2.1: Internal compliance process

Proportionate to their size, available organisational resources, and capacities, Signatories will
put in place or maintain appropriate internal compliance processes and documentation that
specifies how they implement the disclosure obligations using the icon or equivalent label. Such
documentation may include a general description and representative, concrete and real

                                                           33
examples of how disclosures are implemented in practice in accordance with Commitments 1,
3 and 4.

Signatories are encouraged to publish information on the disclosure solution they apply in a
clear and accessible manner. If Signatories use the publicly available EU icon under
Commitment 1, they may do so by using the information provided with the EU icon. If a
Signatory chooses to apply their own icon or equivalent label, a similar description of the icon
or label is encouraged to be made publicly available. This may include images of the icon or
equivalent label(s) in use, as well as explanations of the meaning of each label. Where an icon
or equivalent label carries a different meaning depending on the context, it is encouraged that
any variations are explained.

Where appropriate and particularly in cases of regular use of AI systems to create deep fakes or
published text, Signatories will put in place or maintain a process to ensure and verify that the
design and placement specifications are implemented properly to mitigate risks of non-labelled
or incorrectly labelled content.

Media service providers within the meaning of Article 2(2) of Regulation (EU) 2024/1083 may
comply with this Measure by applying their existing procedures and established professional
standards, to the extent that those practices comply with the measures within this Commitment
and Article 50(4) and (5) AI Act.

Measure 2.2: Awareness and literacy

Signatories will make efforts proportionate to their size, available organisational resources, and
capacities to ensure awareness of the disclosure obligations under Article 50(4) and (5) AI Act
among their personnel, including employees, and external contractors directly involved in the
implementation of disclosure measures or overseeing compliance with the measures in this
Section of the Code.

Signatories are encouraged to provide training or equivalent guidance covering situations in
which disclosure is legally required, how disclosures are implemented in the workflow, cases
when editorial responsibility is involved, cases involving artistic, creative, satirical, fictional or
analogous work, accessibility considerations, and procedures for correcting missing or incorrect
labels where these have been identified.

AI literacy related efforts should be proportionate to the size and available resources of the
Signatory, and applied as appropriate to the roles, technical knowledge, experience, and
education of personnel involved in creating, modifying, and disseminating relevant content
subject to the labelling obligations. Signatories remain free to determine the training formats
and their frequency.

Measure 2.3: Review, feedback and cooperation with authorities

Signatories will support the effective implementation of the design and placement specifications
through internal review and external feedback.

Signatories are encouraged to provide channels that allow individuals or third parties (e.g.,
trusted flaggers, independent researchers, academics, fact-checkers) to flag missing or incorrect
disclosures, where appropriate through existing reporting mechanisms (e.g., trusted flagger
mechanisms, interfaces for third-party fact-checking services or notice and action mechanisms).

Signatories will review cases that have been reported in a substantiated manner as mislabelled
or incorrectly labelled and take measures to remedy cases of non-compliance with Article 50(4)

                                                           34
and (5) without undue delay. Signatories will cooperate with competent authorities in
accordance with applicable Union and national laws (e.g., national market surveillance
authorities).

Commitment 3: Disclosure for Artistic, Creative and Similar
Works

In accordance with Article 50(4) AI Act, Signatories commit to implement measures to disclose
deep fakes that form part of evidently artistic, creative, satirical, fictional or analogous work or
programmes in a way that does not hamper the display or enjoyment of the work, including its
normal exploitation and use, while maintaining the utility and quality of the work.

In this context, Signatories will:

a) use an icon or equivalent label following the design specifications in Measure 1.1. and place
    it in a manner appropriate to the type of artistic, creative, satirical, fictional or analogous
    work and to the context in which it is presented.

b) ensure such disclosure and placement are clear, distinguishable, and accessible to all natural
    persons, and provided at the latest at the time of first exposure to the content containing
    the deep fake (e.g., in the accompanying notes or description provided to users, at the
    beginning/ end credits etc.).

c) ensure the icon or equivalent label is perceivable for a sufficient duration to be easily
    noticed under normal viewing or exposure conditions to ensure perceivability.

Where deep fake content is made available in a digital or interactive manner (e.g., on websites,
apps or other user interfaces), the icon or equivalent label may be placed outside but adjacent
to the video or image frame, or adjacent to the audio content and integrated into user interface
elements or overlays, under the control of the Signatory. Signatories commit to ensure that any
such contextual disclosure solution is perceivable by the end-user without the need to perform
dedicated actions or additional engagement. Examples of contextual disclosure include
disclosures as part of the user interface (e.g., as part of websites or application interfaces of
smart glasses or other digital devices), short notes, a non-obtrusive icon or label that by clicking
or hovering over provides more information, disclaimers appearing adjacent to the content.

Where content is made available in a non-digital or non-interactive manner (e.g., exhibitions,
art galleries, cinemas, festivals or similar contexts, audio or video on a physical carrier),
disclosures may be provided at the online or physical point of entry or sale, as part of the
introductory or accompanying information (e.g. exhibition leaflet or entrance ticket), or
information provided via a physical carrier (e.g. packaging).

Commitment 4: Human Review and Editorial Control for
Published Text

Signatories who are media service providers within the meaning of Art. 2(2) of Regulation (EU)
2024/1083 and already subject to editorial standards and to regulatory, co-regulatory, or self-
regulatory frameworks, as applicable to those media service providers under EU and national
media law and frameworks, may rely on the exception to the disclosure obligation in
Article 50(4), subparagraph 2, AI Act by applying their existing review and editorial procedures
and established professional standards, as applicable, to comply with this Commitment.

                                                           35
All other Signatories, including those without such review or editorial procedures, commit to
establish, adapt, or maintain appropriate policies for human review or editorial control prior to
publication and that a natural or legal person holds editorial responsibility for the publication.
These internal policies may rely on existing processes, will be proportionate to the deployer's
size and resources, and will include at least the following elements:
a) The identification of the natural or legal person with editorial responsibility (name, role and

    contact details);
b) An overview of the concrete organisational measures as well as human resources, allocated

    to ensure adequate human review or editorial control is performed and editorial
    responsibility is assumed before publication of the published text. This does not entail
    having to document individual instances of human review or editorial control over individual
    text publications.
Where not already publicly available, Signatories commit to publish the contact details of the
function, the natural persons or the legal persons with editorial responsibility to ensure
accountability.
Signatories may record additional information on the nature of the review or the type of
involvement of the AI system in the published text.
The implementation of this Commitment shall in no way affect media freedom, editorial
independence and protection of journalistic source information.

                                                           36
Annex

Annex 1: Publicly available EU icons

This Annex contains the EU icons that may be used by deployers to comply with Measure 1.1.
Three main icons are provided. One icon is intended to disclose fully AI-generated deep fakes or
published text (Figure 1), a second icon is intended to disclose AI-manipulated/partially
modified deep fakes or published text (Figure 2), and a third basic icon is included to enable
deployers to supplement it with an interactive layer with further information or an alternative
textual label, where appropriate (Figure 3).
The design and development of the EU icon have been subject to empirical user-testing
conducted across several Member States, which evaluated the perception of authenticity,
noticeability and recognition, understandability and trust. The user-tests included various icon
designs and demonstrated that while all tested designs achieved high noticeability and
reliability, the variants that include a clear textual label (i.e. "modified") performed significantly
better in terms of noticeability and clarity for end-users. Respondents participating in the survey
indicated that explicit text on AI-generation or manipulation reduces the ambiguity regarding
the nature of the content. Consequently, based on this user feedback, the Code includes an icon
for fully AI-generated content ("AI + GENERATED") and one for partially manipulated content
("AI + MODIFIED") to increase transparency for the persons exposed to the content and fulfil the
disclosure objectives of the AI Act. The findings and methodology of the empirical study will be
made public.
These icons are publicly available for Signatories to use in line with the placement specifications,
without the need for attribution to the Commission or the AI Office.
The task force will explore the integration of an interactive second layer with the aim to enrich
the above static icons with provenance data and information on what has been modified. The
development of this interactive layer will be in alignment with the technical capabilities of
deployers and other actors distributing and/or verifying content. An-audio-only EU icon will also
be developed.

Figure 1. The EU icon developed by the AI Office for fully AI-generated content in several
variations against a background (black, white, black transparent, white transparent).

Figure 2. The EU icon developed by the AI Office for partially AI-modified content in several
variations against a background (black, white, black transparent, white transparent).

                                                           37
Figure 3. The basic EU icon developed by the AI Office in several variations against a background
(black, white, black transparent, white transparent).

                                                           38
