
(4) Article 2(1)(c) and recital 22 AI Act.

                                                                                          5
If a company takes an already existing generative AI system placed on the market by another
provider and modifies that system (e.g. with new training data), which it afterwards puts into
service under its own name or trade market, then that company becomes a provider of the new
system without prejudice to the responsibility of the provider of the initial AI system for the
latter.

 (12) Deployers are natural or legal persons, public authorities, agencies or other bodies using
       AI systems under their authority, unless the use is for a personal non-professional
       activity (5). The `authority' over an AI system should be understood as assuming
       responsibility over the decision to deploy the system and over the manner of the actual
       use of the system (including its outputs). It does not necessarily require technical control
       over the operation of the AI system, so long as the deployer takes the decision for what
       purposes and how to use the AI system (including in decentralised workflows and group
       corporate structures). Deployers involved in complex content production and distribution
       value chains should take proportionate measures to ensure that the labelling of the content
       they have implemented pursuant to Article 50(4) AI Act is displayed in a clear and
       distinguishable manner for the targeted and foreseeable audience at the point of first
       exposure in accordance with Article 50(5) AI Act (e.g., via contractual conditions with
       distributing partners, user experience (UX) settings and interfaces to be displayed).

 (13) Deployers fall within the scope of the transparency obligations in Article 50(3) and (4)
       AI Act if their place of establishment or location is within the Union, or if they are
       established or located in a third country where the output of the AI system is used in the
       Union (6). In the latter case, the transparency obligations apply to entities located or
       established outside the Union where the deployer itself foresees dissemination and use
       of the AI outputs in the Union (i.e. by directing or authorising distribution within the
       Union, including by posting deep fakes on the globally accessible internet). However,
       third country deployers are not bound by the transparency obligations where the content
       of the AI system reaches audiences in the Union through channels that are unforeseeable
       and outside their control.

 (14) Where the deployer of an AI system is a legal person under whose authority the system
       is used (e.g. an advertising company), the individual employees that act under the
       instructions and under the control of that legal person (e.g. digital animators, web
       designers, content creators, journalists) should not be considered as separate deployers
       for that system. A legal person remains a deployer even if it involves third parties (e.g.
       contractors, freelancers) in the operation of the system on its behalf and under its
       responsibility and control.

For example, a media outlet established in the Union, whose editors use an AI system to support
their written coverage of current events with AI-generated text publications on matters of public
interests posted on a globally accessible website, is a deployer falling within the scope of the
AI Act. Similarly, a company established in a third country that uses an AI system to generate
a deep fake of a celebrity featured in an advertisement displayed in the Union is also a deployer
falling within the scope of the AI Act.

(5) Article 3(4) AI Act.
(6) Article 2(1)(b) and (c) AI Act.

                                                                                          6
By contrast, a company that merely commissions an advertising agency to produce an
advertisement, without taking decisions and exercising control over whether and how the
advertising agency uses AI in the production process, is not a deployer.

 (15) Operators (e.g. providers and deployers) may fulfil more than one role concurrently in
       relation to an AI system. For example, a company might develop an in-house generative
       AI system and use it for the generation of deep fakes. In such a case, it will qualify as
       both a provider and a deployer that must ensure compliance with the machine-readable
       marking obligations under Article 50(2) and the requirements for a clear and perceivable
       labelling of the deep fakes under Article 50(4) AI Act.

 (16) By contrast, other actors (such as providers of hosting services, including online
       platforms, or broadcasters) whose role is limited to disseminating or transmitting AI-
       generated or manipulated content created by third parties, or who receive or are exposed
       to AI-generated or manipulated content without having authority over the use of the AI
       system for the purpose of the AI content generation or manipulation, are not deployers
       within the meaning of the AI Act. Without being responsible and liable under the AI Act,
       those actors may nevertheless play an important role in the value chain to preserve the
       trust and integrity of the information ecosystem. They are, therefore, strongly encouraged
       to preserve the marking and labelling implemented pursuant to Article 50 AI Act and
       implement proportionate and technically feasible measures to enable natural persons to
       detect the AI-generated or manipulated content, without prejudice to the responsibility
