
         i. The system must be an AI system;

         ii. Used by deployers for professional purposes (see Sections 2.3. and 2.4.1.);

        iii. To generate or manipulate image, audio or video content that constitutes a deep
                fake;

        iv. The AI system must not fall under the exception for use authorised by law to
                detect, prevent, investigate or prosecute criminal offence.

6.1.1. The notion of `deep fake'

 (113) Article 3(60) AI Act defines `deep fakes' as `AI-generated or manipulated image, audio
       or video content that resembles existing persons, objects, places, entities or events and
       would falsely appear to a person to be authentic or truthful'. The difference between
       manipulation and generation has been clarified in Section 4.1 above. For the purpose of
       clarifying the notion of deep fake, four cumulative criteria from that definition are
       examined below: (i) resemblance of (ii) existing (iii) persons, objects, places, entities or
       events (iv) that would falsely appear to a person to be authentic or truthful.

    i. Resemblance: Article 3(60) AI Act specifies that AI-generated or manipulated image,
          audio or video content must `resemble' existing subjects to constitute a deep fake.
          Recital 134 AI Act adds that such resemblance should be `appreciable'. AI-generated
          or manipulated image, audio or video content appreciably resembles a subject if there
          is a high level of similarity between the deep fake content and the subject (including
          any of its recognisable elements) being simulated by the deep fake. The content does
          not need to be identical to the subject. Whether the level of resemblance is appreciable
          is a case-by-case assessment to be done by the deployer based on an objective
          comparison between the simulated subject and the deep fake content, based on, among
          others, the extent to which characteristic or distinctive features are represented by the
          deep fake.

   ii. Existing: Article 3(60) AI Act specifies that AI-generated or manipulated image, audio
          or video content must resemble `existing' subject(s) to constitute a deep fake. To
          effectively fulfil the purpose of Article 50(4) AI Act to reduce the risks of
          impersonation, deception, misinformation, manipulation and fraud, the characteristic

                                                                                         33
          of existence implies that the AI-generated or manipulated image, audio or video
          content should resemble realistic subjects (e.g., persons, objects, places). Therefore, it
          is sufficient for simulated persons, objects, places, entities or events to resemble
          someone or something that exists, can plausibly exist or could have plausibly existed
          in reality to be considered a deep fake, since such content can be a major source of
          deception, manipulation and disinformation. By contrast, simulated persons, objects,
          places, entities or events that, for example, defy the laws of nature or physics or depict
          lifeforms that are not commonly accepted in biology (such as e.g. humans flying
          without mechanical aids, dragons, or elephants driving cars) and have no potential to
          mislead are considered unrealistic and therefore fall outside the scope of the
          transparency obligation.

  iii. Persons, objects, places, entities or events: Article 3(60) AI Act specifies that AI-
          generated or manipulated image, audio or video content should resemble existing
          `persons, objects, places, entities or events' to constitute a deep fake. `Persons' is to be
          understood as realistic, human beings (including digital replicas of real persons,
          realistic AI-generated human avatars or personas, and personal characteristics or
          expressions, such as image, voice, behaviour, performances etc.). `Objects' is to be
          understood as realistic, inanimate material items, including buildings, artworks,
          machinery, consumer goods etc. `Places' is to be understood as realistic locations.
          `Entities' is to be understood as realistic, non-human but animate beings including
          animals or other biological lifeforms. `Events' is to be understood as realistic scenes
          or situations that can involve persons, objects, places and entities (e.g. evoking
          historical events or the depiction of professional or consumer services).

  iv. False appearance to a person to be authentic or truthful: Fourth, Article 3(60) AI Act
          specifies that the AI-generated or manipulated image, audio or video content
          resembling existing persons, objects, places, entities or events 'would falsely appear
          to a person to be authentic or truthful'. This criterion relates to the essential
          characteristic of deep fake content and its capacity to potentially deceive or mislead a
          person regarding the content's authenticity or truthfulness (32).Content authenticity
          refers to whether the content is genuinely what it purports to be in terms of its source
          or creation process (including e.g. the involvement of real human beings or animals
          and their actual behaviour or actions, the actual appearance or use of objects or the
          delivery of services, the accurate unfolding or course of an event). Truthfulness
          pertains to the veracity of the content (e.g. factual correctness of the representations in
          the deep fake).

 (114) Whether content `falsely appears to a person to be authentic or truthful' should be
       assessed as a whole, taking into account the level of resemblance, the potential
       substantive message of the content, the intended and foreseeable deployment contexts,
       the environment in which the content is presented, and the intended and reasonably
       foreseeable audience composition and their expectations. However, this assessment is
       objective and does not require the intention of the deployer to deceive or mislead the
       natural persons exposed to the content for it to constitute a deepfake. As regards the
       deployment context and audience expectations, this means that if the content is used in
       specific deployment contexts where the intended and reasonably foreseeable audience
       does not expect content to be authentic or truthful, the AI-generated or manipulated

(32) Therefore, this criterion must be understood independently and distinctly from the concept of the deception
     as mentioned by Directive 2005/29/EC concerning unfair business-to-consumer commercial practices in the
     internal market (Unfair Commercial Practices Directive), https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/dir/2005/29/oj/eng

                                                                                         34
     content may not falsely appear to be authentic or truthful even if it is, in fact, non-
     authentic or untruthful. In such cases, the fourth criterion of the deep fake definition will
     not be fulfilled. For example, the AI-generation or manipulation of background scenes,
     special effects, or technical pre- and post-processing as part of standard movie production
     processes are not likely to make content falsely appear to the audience to be authentic or
     truthful. Conversely, the use of AI for generating or manipulating essential elements that
     impact audience perception is likely to do so (such as fully AI-generated actors, digital
     replicas of real or deceased actors, de-aging, simulated performances including parts
     thereof, or non-authentic or untruthful representation of persons, objects, places or events
     in documentaries). For image and video content, it is acknowledged that a high degree of
     photorealism renders it more likely that such content should be considered a deep fake
     (as it likely resembles existing subjects), but photorealism alone is not determinative for
     the assessment. What should still be assessed, is whether such content is capable of
     deceiving or misleading a person regarding the content's authenticity or truthfulness
     while taking into account, among others, the intended and foreseeable deployment
     context.

(115) As opposed to Article 50(1) AI Act, the assessment of false appearance to a person to
     be authentic or truthful should not be based on a hypothetical "average" person expected
     to be exposed to the content (see Section 3.2.1), but should duly take into account the
     possible diverse composition of the reasonably foreseeable audience that may be exposed
     to the deep fake content. Due consideration of audience composition is especially
     important if it is reasonably foreseeable that the deep fake content may, at some point,
     be perceived by children, the elderly, or other groups of persons with lower digital and
     AI literacy or general knowledge levels, since they may be more easily deceived or
     misled regarding the content's authenticity or truthfulness. In such cases, false
     appearance of the content to be authentic or truthful to that part of the foreseeable
     audience may suffice to qualify content as a deep fake. However, deployers are not
     expected to consider potential further dissemination of the deep fake content by third
     parties beyond the reasonably foreseeable audience by the deployer, taking into account
     the intended distribution channels (e.g. if deep fake content is shown solely on a
     subscriber-only part of a website or as part of a corporate newsletter, this does not imply
     that the deployer should consider broad public accessibility by default).

(116) In a similar vein, AI-supported manipulation of insignificant substantive or technical
     aspects of pre-existing content may be of minor relevance for a person's assessment of
     the authenticity or truthfulness of the content, not rendering the resulting content to
     become a deep fake. This could include, for example, editing background details (e.g.
     removing passerby), lighting adjustments, adapting audio parameters, colour correction,
     noise reduction or removal, improving accessibility or file compression, cosmetic
     adjustments and enhancements. Whether the manipulation will fall into this category
     depends on the context and the impact on the persons' perception of the content's
     authenticity or truthfulness in the specific case. For example, AI-powered colour
     correction, background extensions of existing content, adjustments or replacements of
     backgrounds for clearly aesthetic purposes, compositions and arrangements of existing
     products, or re-scaling of images applied in product advertisements or packaging is likely
     to have only a minor impact on a person's perception of the authenticity and truthfulness
     of the advertisement and the product. Conversely, substantial AI-powered editing of
     background details of journalistic images beyond standard technical, editorial practices
     may negatively affect a person's perception of the content's authenticity and truthfulness.

                                                                                      35
Examples of deep fakes under Article 3(60) AI Act
- AI-manipulated image of a scene involving two real professional footballers in front of a
building resembling a football stadium.
- AI-generated audio involving voice cloning of a newspaper podcast's regular presenters and
a guest interlocutor discussing some news events.
-AI-generated video of an individual resembling a politician, holding a speech in front of an
audience.
- AI-generated video featuring an AI-generated depiction of a celebrity influencer in an
advertising or promotional context.
- AI-generated video featuring a realistic synthetic avatar of a company CEO congratulating
employees with their work and the corporate results of the past year.
- An AI-generated image of a product in advertisement or packaging that can affect the
audience's perception and mislead as to the actual product appearance, characteristics or use
(e.g. making the product appear not identical to the real product, more appealing or with
improved quality than in real life).
Examples that do not constitute deep fakes under Article 3(60) AI Act
- AI-generated image of a scene involving a sphinx flying over the Eiffel Tower.
- AI-generated video of mice arguing in human language over the best type of cheese as part of
an advertisement campaign for a cheese manufacturer.
- AI voice replication for fictional characters (e.g., for audiobooks, games or animation) when
there is no deception as to the identity of the narrators.
- AI-manipulated radio broadcast adjusting technical audio parameters (e.g. normalising
volume levels, noise reduction, audio compression) without altering the actual words spoken
by speakers or their way of speaking.
- AI-generated cartoon of a pre-existing image depicting a historical event.
- Video of a presenter of a scientific TV-programme who walks across a mountainous region
while addressing the retreat of glaciers which is illustrated by an AI-manipulated background
animation that shows how the glaciers retreated from their historical levels to their current
levels.
- AI-generated fictitious environments (e.g. fictitious forests and castles) in video games.
- Movies where real existing actors (not manipulated by AI) are playing against an AI-generated
background (e.g. depicting a fictitious stretch of prairie, historical buildings of ancient cities
etc.).
- A real product (e.g., a car) shown in an advertisement against an AI-generated background
and surrounding environment as long as the ad is not likely to mislead the audience about the
product's actual representation and its characteristics and use.

                                                                                         36
6.1.2. The disclosure obligation under Article 50(4), first subparagraph, AI Act

 (117) Article 50(4), first subparagraph, AI Act obliges deployers of AI systems that generate
       or manipulate image, audio or video content constituting a deep fake to `disclose that the
       deep fake content has been artificially generated or manipulated'. Recital 134 AI Act
       clarifies that deployers using AI systems to generate or manipulate deep fake content
       should clearly and distinguishably disclose that such content has been artificially created
       or manipulated by labelling the AI output accordingly and disclosing its artificial origin.
       Labelling or disclosure methods applied in accordance with Article 50(4), first
       subparagraph, AI Act should be understandable and perceivable by natural persons (e.g.
       with visible or audible labels), without them needing to rely on any specific technical
       tools or performing dedicated actions. Therefore, deployers cannot rely on the machine-
       readable marking embedded in the content by the provider under Article 50(2) AI Act,
       since those markings are not immediately clear and distinguishable for the natural
       persons exposed to the deep fake content.

 (118) In light of Article 50(7) AI Act, deployers may adhere to a code of practice, assessed as
       adequate pursuant to Article 50(7) AI Act to demonstrate compliance with this disclosure
       obligation. For further information regarding the effects of adherence to such a code and
       the supervision of other deployers not adhering to a code, see Section 8.1 below.

6.1.3. Transparency of artistic, creative, satirical, fictional or analogous deep fake
         content

 (119) Article 50(4), first subparagraph, AI Act foresees an attenuated transparency obligation
       for deep fakes forming part of evidently artistic, creative, satirical, fictional or analogous
       works or programmes. For such content, the transparency obligation is limited to the
       disclosure of the deep fake in an appropriate manner that does not hamper the display or
       enjoyment of the work.

 (120) Relevant content categories: To benefit from the attenuated transparency disclosure,
       the deep fake (image, audio or video) should form part of, at least, one of the following
       content categories: artistic, creative, satirical, fictional, or analogous works or
       programmes. Whether a deep fake falls under one or more of these categories requires a
       case-by-case assessment by the deployer. For the purpose of Article 50(4) AI Act, those
       categories are understood as follows:

       - Artistic works are to be understood as works that have been created for the purpose
            of art, including music, cinematographic works, and visual arts;

       - Creative works are to be understood as works that involve creative choices. Works
            that are mainly motivated by functional or technical considerations cannot be
            regarded as creative;

       - Satirical works are to be understood as works that are intended to criticise society,
            politics, business or public figures through the use of humoristic techniques
            (including irony, sarcasm, mockery, pastiche etc.);

       - Fictional works are to be understood as cultural works that involve persons, objects,
            places, entities or events, in an imaginary, but verisimilitude setting;

                                                                                         37
       - Analogous works are to be understood as works sharing core traits or similar
            expressive or functional characteristics with the above categories, but not fitting
            neatly into one.

 (121) The above content categories may also apply to programme(s) that should be understood
       as an individual item within a schedule or catalogue, established by a media service
       provider, that is comparable in form and content to television broadcasting (33). The
       reference to `works' in the context of Article 50(4) AI Act has no bearing on whether the
       content qualifies for protection under Union law on copyright and related rights.

 (122) Evidently: The fact that a deep fake falls within one (or more) of the above content
       categories should be evident to the natural persons exposed to it. This implies that the
       categories should be interpreted strictly, justified by the fact that a lighter disclosure
       regime applies due to the potential impact on the freedom of expression and the freedom
       of the arts and sciences, while risks of misinformation, manipulation and deception still
       need to be addressed adequately. Therefore, content whose nature is potentially unclear
       or ambiguous to the audience is excluded from the scope of this lighter transparency
       regime. Relevant factors for assessing the evident nature of artistic, creative, satirical or
       fictional content include: (i) whether the content displays formats or styles that are
       characteristic of the content categories (e.g. irony or exaggeration for satirical works,
       certain art styles, displaying distinctive themes, techniques or aesthetics, etc.); (ii) the
       context in which the content is presented (e.g. if the platform, medium or place where
       the content is presented, made available, or distributed is associated with artistic,
       creative, satirical or fictional use); and (iii) audience expectations (e.g. a movie, gaming
       environment, or virtual reality scene). In addition, the condition that content should
       `evidently' fall in one of the above content categories excludes content from the scope of
       those content categories if its nature is exclusively informative or commercial and is
       recognisable as such (e.g. news reporting). In this respect, some kinds of content (e.g.
       advertisements or documentaries) containing deep fakes might be regarded as evidently
       creative or fictional works in certain, specific situations, but not in others, since the
       assessment is case-specific. When the deep fake combines multiple characters (e.g.
       informative and creative), the informative character should always prevail and require
       compliance with the standard labelling requirements.

 (123) Appropriate disclosure not hampering the display or enjoyment of the work: Deep
       fakes that form part of evidently artistic, creative, satirical or fictional works or
       programmes are not excluded from the transparency obligation of Article 50(4), first
       subparagraph, AI Act. Deployers still need to disclose the AI-origin of the content or its
       manipulation, but they can do so in an appropriate manner that does not hamper the
       display or enjoyment of the work. Recital 134 AI Act clarifies that such appropriate
       disclosure should not hamper the normal exploitation and use, while allowing to maintain
       the utility and quality of the work. Determining which disclosure measures are to be
       considered appropriate is a case-by-case assessment, whereby deployers may consider
       all relevant factors (including nature of the work, audience, context, etc.). In any case,
       deployers need to comply with Article 50(5) AI Act (see Section 7). In light of Article
       50(7) AI Act, deployers may adhere to a code of practice, assessed as adequate pursuant
       to that provision, to demonstrate compliance with this disclosure obligation. For further
       information regarding the effects of adherence to such a code and supervision of other
       deployers not adhering to a code, see Section 8.1 below.

(33) See in a similar vein Article 1(b) AVMSD.

                                                                                         38
 (124) Appropriate safeguards for the rights and freedoms of third parties: Recital 134
       AI Act clarifies that compliance with the attenuated transparency obligation and the use
       of artistic, creative, satirical or fictional deep fakes must be `subject to appropriate
       safeguards for the rights and freedoms of third parties'. Therefore, deployers need to
       ensure that the rights and freedoms of third parties (including e.g. their right to the
       protection of personal data or intellectual property rights) are adequately safeguarded and
       respected, when creating or publishing deep fakes, even if the deep fake is to be
       considered artistic, creative, satirical or fictional. Reliance on the attenuated transparency
       obligation cannot be a justification for failing to respect the fundamental rights of
       individuals or rightsholders under Union law on intellectual property or Union data
       protection law (34).

Examples of deep fakes that are creative, satirical, fictional or analogous works

- Artistic/fictional work: movies (or movie trailers) featuring AI-generated or manipulated deep
fakes of de-aged, existing actors or digital replicas of dead actors or other persons, available in
a cinema or on a streaming platform.

- Artistic/creative work: AI-generated music in any kind of genre resembling the individual
style of existing artists.

- Satirical/fictional work: AI-manipulated image of an existing politician placing him in a scene
clearly meant to criticise in a humorous manner certain policy decisions taken or supported by
that person.

- Analogous creative/fictional work: AI-generated gaming imagery involving deep fake
simulations of real, existing persons.

Examples of deep fakes that do not constitute artistic, creative, satirical, fictional or
analogous work:

- AI-manipulated video in the style of a teleshopping channel involving deep fake simulation
of humans advertising a product in an AI-generated scene depicting the functional use of the
product by the simulated consumers with the aim of persuading viewers to buy the product.

- AI-generated image of celebrities implying their involvement in activities that never
happened, lacking any fictional, satirical or analogous purpose.

-AI-manipulated video featuring a realistic synthetic influencer testing out a sponsored real
product, focused solely on displaying the product functionalities.

- AI-generated video depicting realistic, holocaust scenes being shared on publicly available
social media platforms.

6.1.4. Exception for law enforcement

 (125) If the use of a deep fake (e.g. an AI-generated video simulating events that never
       happened) is authorised by law to detect, prevent, investigate or prosecute criminal
       offences, deployers are exempted from the transparency obligation under Article 50(4),

(34) This equally applies to published texts informing the public on matters of public interest.

                                                                                         39
       first subparagraph, AI Act. The clarifications provided in points 46-48 above for a similar
       exception in Article 50(1) AI Act are also relevant for this provision.

6.1.5. Interplay with other Union legal acts

 (126) The transparency obligation under Article 50(4), first subparagraph, AI Act will interact
       with the obligations of providers of VLOPs and VLOSEs to identify and mitigate
       systemic risks pursuant to Articles 34 and 35 DSA, in particular, Article 35(1)(k)
       DSA (35). The latter provision lists, among the possible risk-mitigation measures that
       providers of VLOPs and VLOSEs may adopt, measures ensuring that `an item of
       information, whether it constitutes a generated or manipulated image, audio or video that
       appreciably resembles existing persons, objects, places or other entities or events and
       falsely appears to a person to be authentic or truthful is distinguishable through prominent
       markings when presented on their online interfaces'. In addition, providers of VLOPs
       and VLOSEs may also provide an easy-to-use functionality which enables recipients of
       the service to indicate such information. While this DSA provision seems similar to
       Article 50(4) AI Act, it is complementary to it and contains two important distinctions:

      -Different material scope of application: Compared to Article 50 (4) AI Act,
          Article 35(1)(k) DSA covers a broader range of content that may falsely appear
          authentic or truthful, regardless of the technologies used to create the content (i.e. it
          covers content that has been generated or manipulated by using AI systems or by any
          other tool).

      -Different personal scope of application: Article 50(4) AI Act obliges deployers of AI
          systems generating or manipulating deep fakes to label such content, while
          Article 35(1)(k) DSA applies to providers of VLOPs and VLOSEs disseminating the
          content or making such content discoverable through search. For example, deployers
          of AI systems integrated into a VLOP under the AI Act may be considered `recipients
          of the service' under Article 3(b) DSA (36) if they use the VLOP to disseminate
          content generated with the respective AI system, while the VLOP may be considered
          the provider of the AI system if the conditions of Article 3(3) AI Act are fulfilled.
          Where providers of VLOPs or VLOSEs make labelling tools available to such
          deployers enabling them to label their deep fake content in compliance with
          Article 50(4) AI Act (i.e. a clear and distinguishable disclosure of the AI-origin), those
          deployers can rely on such tools to fulfil their transparency obligation under that
          provision within the context of the VLOP or VLOSE used. Providing such a
          functionality is without prejudice to the responsibility of the deployers under the
          AI Act to fulfil their labelling obligations under Article 50(4) AI Act. Furthermore,
          providers of VLOPs and VLOSEs will also be considered deployers of an AI system
          under the AI Act if they use an AI-system under their authority for their own
          professional purposes (e.g. creating visuals to be used as part of marketing material).

 (127) If the deep fake includes information relating to a directly or indirectly identifiable
       natural person (who is alive), then deployers as controllers under Union data protection
       law will also need to comply with the respective obligations under Union data protection

(35) See also Section 4.4 for further information regarding the interplay between Article 50 AI Act and the DSA.
(36) Recital 2 DSA.

                                                                                         40
       law (37). This includes, for example, reliance on an appropriate legal basis for the
       processing of the personal data, information regarding the processing of data relating to
       the depicted data subjects, etc.

 (128) Deployers of AI systems generating deep fakes will furthermore need to ensure that they
       comply with relevant Union intellectual property laws (such as Union trademark law and
       Union law on copyright or related rights) if their deep fake incorporates subject matter
       protected under those laws. The application of a label or icon to a deep fake does not, as
       such, have any impact on its eligibility for copyright protection, which should be assessed
       in accordance with applicable Union copyright law.

 (129) Where existing persons are depicted in deep fakes, deployers will also need to comply
       with relevant legal regimes protecting personality rights over personal images or voices.
       The transparency obligation of Article 50(4), first subparagraph, AI Act does not imply
       that AI-generated or manipulated deep fakes that are harmful and unlawful under the
       applicable Union or national law (e.g. misleading advertising or criminal law such as
       child sexual abuse material and non-consensual intimate images) may be generated and
       disseminated (see also Section 4.4).

6.2. Main components, concepts and related transparency obligation(s) for AI-
      generated or manipulated text under Article 50(4) AI Act

 (130) Article 50(4), second subparagraph, AI Act applies if several conditions are fulfilled:

            i. The system must be an AI system;

           ii. Used to generate or manipulate text (see Section 4.2.1.) published with the
                  purpose of informing the public on matters of public interest;

          iii. The use of the AI system does not fall under any of the exceptions where (1) the
                  AI-generated content has undergone a process of human review or editorial
                  control and where a natural or legal person holds editorial responsibility for the
                  publication of the content or (2) the use is authorised by law to detect, prevent,
                  investigate or prosecute criminal offences.

6.2.1. Text published with the purpose of informing the public on matters of public
         interest

 (131) For the purpose of clarifying the scope of Article 50(4), second subparagraph, AI Act,
       three elements are examined below: (i) published text (ii) with the purpose of informing
       the public (iii) on matters of public interest.

    i. Published text: The AI-generated or manipulated text should be published. This means
          that the text should be accessible by an indeterminate, fairly large number of unrelated,
          potential readers simultaneously and/or successively, whether or not against payment
          (e.g. subscriptions) (38). By contrast, text is not considered published if access is

(37) For more detailed clarification, see the joint Commission and EDPB guidelines on the interplay between the
     AI Act and EU data protection law (under preparation).

(38) See, by way of analogy, C-89/04, Mediakabel, EU:C:2005:348, para. 33; C-192/04, Lagard-re,
     EU:C:2005:475, para. 31; C-306/05, SGAE, EU:C:2006:764, para. 37-40; C-527/15, Stichting Brein,

                                                                                         41
          restricted to specific individuals belonging to a closed, private group (e.g. a small,
          closed group on an instant messaging app, or if the group is too small or insignificant).
          Examples of text not considered published include e.g. private, interpersonal
          correspondence (for professional purposes), or organisation-internal texts or
          communications (e.g. publications on internal corporate networks).

   ii. Informing the public: The AI-generated or manipulated published text should aim to
          inform the public. This entails that the text should intend to communicate knowledge,
          opinions or facts. By contrast, short texts which do not materially communicate
          knowledge, opinions or facts, cannot be deemed to inform the public.

  iii. On matters of public interest: The text should inform the public `on matters of public
          interest'. In general, such matters should be understood to cover those relevant to
          society at large, whether at a local, national, Union or international level, and meriting
          public debate or scrutiny. In that regard, texts should be considered to address public
          interest matters if they cover topics on politics and democratic processes, public
          administration and services, the administration of justice and law enforcement, the
          protection of fundamental rights, public security, public health, environmental
          protection, consumer safety, and any economic, financial, political, scientific, or
          cultural development that may be relevant subject of public debate. Matters that may
          be considered to be of public interest can evolve over time and across contexts.

Examples of text published with the purpose of informing the public on matters of public
interest under Article 50(4) AI Act Act which must be labelled as artificially generated or
manipulated unless subject to human review/editorial control (see Section 6.2.3.):

- AI-generated summary of a human-authored article on a newspaper's website discussing a
recent decision by a town council.

- AI-manipulated parts of a lifestyle-website article comparing the effects of various diets on a
particular disease in middle-aged women.

- AI-manipulated corporate reports published on a listed company's website containing investor
information.

- AI-generated message on a meteorological institute's social media profile warning citizens
about stormy weather and related precautionary measures.

Examples of text which is not published with the purpose of informing the public on
matters of public interest falling outside the scope of Article 50(4) AI Act:

- AI-generated fantasy novels.

- AI-manipulated text that is part of a company's advertisement or product descriptions (not
including any claims related to e.g. health, consumer safety or sustainability).

- News summary generated by a chatbot that is only available to the user that prompted the
chatbot.

- AI-manipulated text by a consultant for a client advice regarding measures to be taken for
regulatory compliance with applicable legislation.

     EU:C:2017:300, para. 43-44 and case-law cited; Case C-135/23, GEMA, EU:C:2024:526, para. 38 and case-
     law cited).

