https://www.tiktok.com/support/faq_detail?id=7636670084747893268
https://www.tiktok.com/support/faq_detail?id=7636670084747893268&category=web_account

Posts
Analytics
Video Playing
Creation
Playlists
Effects and filters on TikTok
AI Alive
Camera tools
Creating effects on mobile
Books
Movies and TV shows
Editing TikTok videos and photos
Credit a video
Tools for creators
Accessibility for your videos
AI canvas
Creator Search Insights
Stitch
TikTok Stories
Add Yours
AI Cast
TikTok Studio
Editing, posting, and deleting
Duets
About AI-generated content
Likeness Detection for AI-generated content (AIGC)
TikTok Notes
AI Image
Full screen mode
Posting Video
Sound
Video Missing
About AI-generated content
Jump to a section
What is AI-generated content?  •  What are the requirements for posting AI-generated content on TikTok?  •  How is AI-generated content labeled on TikTok?  •  Why should creators label AI-generated content?  •  What kinds of AI-generated content are prohibited entirely on TikTok?  •  How to apply the Creator labeled as AI-generated label •  How to report a post
What is AI-generated content?
AI-generated content (AIGC) includes images, video and/or audio that is generated or modified by artificial intelligence, such as artificial visuals, videos, or sounds that may portray realistic human likenesses or depictions created in a particular artistic style (e.g. painting, cartoons, and anime).
Examples of AI-generated content include the following:
•  Video featuring a real person speaking, whose image, voice, and/or words are altered or modified by AI.
•  Video or image featuring a scene or event that occurred in the real world, but has been altered or modified by AI.
•  Entirely AI-generated videos or images of real or fictional people, places, and events.
What are the requirements for posting AI-generated content on TikTok?
To support authentic and transparent experiences for our community, we encourage creators to label content that has been either completely generated or significantly edited by AI. We consider content that's significantly edited by AI as that which uses real images/video as source material, but has been modified by AI beyond minor corrections or enhancements, including synthetic images/video in which:
•  The primary subjects are portrayed doing something they didn't do, for example, dancing.
•  The primary subjects are portrayed saying something they didn't say, for example, AI-generated speech.
•  The appearance of the primary subject(s) has been substantially altered, such that the original subject(s) is no longer recognizable, for example, with an AI face-swap.
We also require creators to label all AI-generated content that contains realistic images, audio, and video, as explained in our Community Guidelines.
How is AI-generated content labeled on TikTok?
Creators can disclose content as AI-generated directly on the post by adding text, a hashtag sticker, or context in the post's description.
TikTok also offers labels to let viewers know when content was made using AI:
Creator label: Creators apply this label to indicate that their content was completely generated or significantly edited by AI. The label will read "creator labeled as AI-generated". Please note that misleadingly labeling unaltered content with this label is a violation of our Terms of Service and may result in the removal of content.
Keep in mind that if you made your AI-generated content using only TikTok effects, you may not need to label it as we automatically label content made with TikTok effects if they use AI. If you independently altered your video with AI in addition to the TikTok effect you used, we still ask that you follow our labeling guidelines.
Auto label: TikTok may automatically apply the "AI-generated" label to content we identify as completely generated or significantly edited with AI. This may happen when a creator uses TikTok AI effects or uploads AI-generated content that has Content Credentials attached, a technology from the Coalition for Content Provenance and Authenticity (C2PA). Content Credentials attach metadata to content that we can use to recognize and label AIGC instantly.
Learn more about our partnership with C2PA and our work to advance AIGC transparency.
Note: Once your content is labeled as AI-generated with an auto label, you won't be able to remove the label from your post.
If you see a video on TikTok that you believe violates our Edited Media and AI-Generated Content (AIGC) policy, please report it to us.
Why should creators label AI-generated content?
We ask creators to disclose their AI-generated content to:
•  Provide transparent context to viewers about the content they're viewing. While AI unlocks incredible creative opportunities, it can potentially make it difficult for viewers to tell the difference between fact and fiction if not labeled.
•  Follow our Community Guidelines on Integrity and Authenticity, which require people to label realistic AIGC, and prohibit content that can harmfully mislead or impersonate others. We may remove content that violates our Community Guidelines policies by depicting misleading information or unlabeled AI-generated content.
What kinds of AI-generated content are prohibited entirely on TikTok?
Some AI-generated content or edited media can still cause harm, even if properly labeled. We do not allow AI-generated content that shows:
•  Fake authoritative sources or crisis events, or falsely shows public figures in certain contexts. This includes being bullied, making an endorsement, or being endorsed.
•  The likeness of young people under the age of 18, or the likeness of adult private figures used without their permission.
Learn more about what type of AI-generated content is not allowed on TikTok.
Note: We take action on any content that violates our Community Guidelines, regardless of whether it was altered with AI. This includes our policies around impersonation, misinformation, and hate speech.
How to apply the Creator labeled as AI-generated label
To turn on the AI-generated content setting before you post on the TikTok app:
Photo
1. Tap the Add post + button at the bottom and capture your photo.
2. Tap the Post settings at the bottom.
3. Turn the AI-generated content setting on.
Video
1. Tap the Add post + button at the bottom.
2. Record then tap the Continue ✓ button. You can also upload a video from your device.
3. Tap Next.
4. Tap More options ..., then turn on the AI-generated content setting.
Note: Turning on the AI-generated content setting won't affect the distribution of your video as long as it doesn't violate our Community Guidelines.
How to report a post
If you see a post containing AI-generated content that goes against our Community Guidelines, including AI impersonation, please report it to us. You can report a post from the app or a web browser.
From the TikTok app
1. Go to the post and tap the Share button or press and hold the post, then tap Report.
2. Tap Misinformation, then tap Deepfakes, synthetic media, and manipulated media.
3. Tap Submit.
From a web browser
1. Go to the post and hover over the More options ... button at the top, then click Report.
2. Click Misinformation, then click Deepfakes, synthetic media, and manipulated media.
3. Click Submit.
Was this helpful?
Yes
No
Chat with us