https://www.meta.com/help/artificial-intelligence/355108217670024/
https://www.meta.com/help/artificial-intelligence/355108217670024/

Skip to main content
AI glasses
Meta Quest
Meta VR Glasses
Muse Charm
Explore Meta
Support
Search help articles
Search
Meta Help Center
How AI-generated images in ads are identified and labeled on Meta
How AI-generated images in ads are identified and labeled on Meta
Updated:
18 weeks ago
We are continuously refining our product experience. As a result, some people may not see this product update.

Generative artificial intelligence (generative AI) is a tool that helps create or modify content such as images and text in new ways.

How generative AI works

Generative AI models are trained using billions of pieces of information. To generate new content, generative AI models learn about patterns and relationships between these pieces of information based on prompts or instructions.

For example, you might type a request in a generative AI tool asking for an image of 3 brown dogs running through a meadow of flowers. Or you might request a joke written in the style of a historical figure, like Shakespeare.

How AI-generated images are labeled in Ads on Meta products

As more generative AI tools become available, it’s important to be able to recognize when ad images have been created or significantly edited with generative AI. Significant edits using generative AI could include features like background generation and image generation.

Note: Labeling is different for organic, or unpaid content. Learn more about how organic AI-generated content is identified and labeled on Meta.

Meta is providing transparency by labeling ad images created or significantly edited using our generative AI creative features or ad images created or edited using third-party AI tools with AI info.

This approach will continue to evolve in partnership with experts, advertisers, policy stakeholders and industry partners as people’s expectations and the technology evolve.

For ads about social issues, elections or politics, advertisers are already required to disclose if the image, video or audio are created or edited with AI. Learn more about how we label those ads.

Note: As these tools are gradually rolling out, not all ads using Meta’s generative AI creative features will have AI info.

Where AI info will appear on ads

If an ad was created or significantly edited using Meta's generative AI creative features or created or edited using third-party AI tools, the AI info label will appear on the About this ad screen in the three-dot menu in the top right-hand corner of the ad.

Sometimes an AI info label will also appear next to the Sponsored label at the top of the ad.

Not all ads will have AI info, like when there are minor changes or enhancements like image resizing or color correction.

Note: Depending on your region, the AI info label name or the Sponsored label name may be different.

Machine learning in ads

Generative AI is not the only type of AI used in ads. Meta uses machine learning models, an application of AI, to help determine the best ad to show you at a given point in time. The Why am I seeing this ad? tool provides transparency about how your activity both on and off our technologies may inform the machine learning models we use to shape and deliver the ads you see.

Learn more about how Facebook ads use machine learning.

Learn more about how generative AI works in the Privacy Center.

Share
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
Meta Store
Meta Glasses
Ray-Ban Meta glasses
Oakley Meta glasses
Meta Ray-Ban Display
Compare glasses
AI glasses accessories
AI glasses guides
Meta Lab
Meta Quest
Meta Quest accessories
Apps and games
Meta Gift Card
Refurbished Meta Quest 3
Refurbished Meta Quest 3S
Refurbished Ray-Ban Meta glasses
More from Ray-Ban
Meta Quest: Play now. Pay later.
Meta Warranty Plus
Meta Quest referrals
Education discount
AI glasses bulk order inquiry
Blog
Store support and legal
Meta Help Center
Order status
Returns
Find a product demo
Find a store
Legal
Terms of sale
Meta Quest safety center
Community
Creators
Developers
Businesses
Non-profits
Download SDKs
Made for Meta partner program
VR for Good
Our actions
Data and privacy
Responsible business practices
Accessibility
Elections
About us
About Meta
Company Info
Careers
Media gallery
Brand resources
For investors
Newsroom
Site terms and policies
Community standards
Privacy policy
Terms
Cookie policy
App support
Facebook Help Center
Messenger Help Center
Instagram Help Center
WhatsApp Help Center
Workplace Help Center
Meta Verified
Meta Account (Single Login)
English (US)

Parents: Important Guidance & Safety Warnings for children’s use.

For additional details on our AI Glasses and Meta Quest products and services, please visit the product pages and review the related legal disclosures. See details for our current promotions.

OPTIONAL FINANCING is subject to eligibility and lender terms. For details on current financing offers, see current offers and Financing Disclosures.

†DISNEY+
PG-13 for extended sequences of sci-fi violence and action.
Content rating may differ in your country. Disney+ subscription required. Must be 18+ to subscribe. © 2026 Disney and its related entities. © 2026 & ™ Lucasfilm Ltd. All rights reserved. Availability of 3D playback on Disney+ varies by region. Some titles shown may not be available in 3D in your country.

††NBA
Select NBA games only. Availability varies by region. Subscription may be required.

MUSE CHARM
Muse Charm requires you to sign up for Muse. Download the Muse app here: https://muse.ai/

©2026 Meta.