7. HORIZONTAL REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO THE INFORMATION PROVIDED
    UNDER ARTICLE 50(5) AI ACT

 (141) Pursuant to Article 50(5) AI Act, the information to be provided in accordance with
       Article 50(1) to (4) AI Act should be provided to the natural persons concerned in a clear
       and distinguishable manner, at the latest at the time of the first interaction or exposure.
       The information should also conform to the applicable accessibility requirements.
       Natural persons concerned in this context include the persons directly interacting with
       the AI system (Article 50(1) AI Act), active or passive users and other persons exposed
       to the AI-generated or manipulated synthetic content (with or without direct interaction
       with the AI system (Article 50(2) and (4) AI Act)), and persons subject to the use of
       emotion recognition or biometric categorisation systems (Article 50(3) AI Act).

(39) Regulation (EU) 2024/1083 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 April 2024 establishing a
     common framework for media services in the internal market and amending Directive 2010/13/EU (European
     Media Freedom Act); OJ L, 2024/1083, 17.4.2024.

                                                                                         45
7.1. Information provision in a clear and distinguishable manner

 (142) Information will be considered to be provided in a clear manner where it is noticeable,
       easy to understand by and accessible for the natural person concerned (including persons
       with disabilities). Information will be considered to be provided in a distinguishable
       manner where it is easy to identify as separate from other information and the
       environment in which the content is presented. It must be also easily understood by the
       audience, including by specific groups, such as children or persons with disabilities when
       they are part of the audience foreseeably exposed to the content or interacting with the
       system (40). To provide information in a clear and distinguishable manner, the relevant
       information may be inter alia presented as part of the interaction (under Article 50(1)
       AI Act) or the relevant content (under Article 50(2) and (4) AI Act). Information will not
       be considered to be provided in a clear and distinguishable manner where it can be easily
       overlooked or missed by natural persons under normal exposure or interaction conditions
       (e.g. only included as part of a manual or hidden under layers of menu options on an
       online interface, part of terms of use that are often not read by users).

7.2. First interaction or exposure

 (143) Article 50(5) AI Act requires the information to be provided to the natural persons
       concerned at the latest at the time of the first interaction or exposure. The first interaction
       or exposure refers not only to the first natural person interacting with or exposed to (the
       output of) an AI system, but also any subsequent, first interaction with or exposure to
       (the output of) the AI system by any other natural person. As regards the first interaction
       with an AI-system, the information should, at least, be provided once at the start of an
       interactive session, while considering the specific contexts mentioned in point above. As
       regards AI-generated or manipulated content falling within the scope of Article 50(2) and
       (4) AI Act, the information obligation applies to each output of an AI system with respect
       to any natural person exposed to the content. It should be understood in the sense of any
       moment in time at which a natural person is reasonably likely to be exposed to the output
       of the AI system and perceive the disclosure, taking into account the specificities of
       disclosure in case of evidently creative, artistic and other works (see Section 6.1.3.).
       Moreover, deployers are allowed to inform natural persons earlier than the first actual
       interaction or exposure (e.g. at the beginning of content featuring deep fakes). However,
       if it is reasonably foreseeable that persons may not perceive content from its beginning,
       then only disclosure at the beginning of content does not adequately inform those persons
       and should be complemented with disclosure at later moments, where possible. This may
       be implemented as appropriate, taking into account the objective of the transparency
       obligations to ensure an effective provision of the information and meaningful user
       awareness in increasingly immersive and realistic AI environments where users have

(40) When children are part of the target audience of the content those notifications must be: (i) child-friendly,
     age-appropriate, easy-to-understand and easily accessible to all children, including those with disabilities
     and/or additional accessibility needs; (ii) presented clearly in a way that is easy to understand and is as simple
     and succinct as possible; (iii) presented in ways that are easy to review and that provide for immediate and
     intuitive access, at the points at which they become relevant; (iv) presented in the official language(s) of the
     Member State the service is provided in; (v) engaging for children. This may also include the use of graphics,
     videos, and/or characters or other techniques; (vi) given to children gradually and overtime to maximise
     retention by the user.

                                                                                         46
       increasing difficulties to distinguish the origin and the truthfulness of the content and the
       interaction.

Examples of information provision at the first interaction or exposure under Article 50(5)
AI Act

- First interaction: when launching a conversation with a chatbot or starting physical interaction
with an AI system.

- First exposure: at the start of a video featuring a deep fake, at the start of an AI-generated or
manipulated text publication on matters of public interest, or when encountering AI-
manipulated deep fakes when scrolling on social media.

7.3. Compliance with applicable accessibility requirements

 (144) Providers and deployers of AI systems falling within scope of the various transparency
       obligations listed in Article 50(1)-(4) AI Act must be aware of the applicable
       accessibility requirements (e.g. under Directive 2016/2102 (41) and Directive
       2019/882 (42)) and assess whether their product, service or content needs to comply with
       those rules. In such a case, they must ensure accessibility of the information conveyed in
       line with Article 50 AI Act in accordance with the applicable accessibility requirements.
       Article 50 AI Act does not impose distinct or additional accessibility requirements.

8. ENFORCEMENT OF ARTICLE 50 AI ACT

 (145) This section aims to clarify: (i) the effects of adhering to a code of practice as regards
       compliance with the transparency obligations for AI-generated content; (ii) the role of
       the competent supervisory authorities in the enforcement of Article 50 AI Act; (iii) the
       applicable penalties for infringements of those obligations; and (iv) the moment at which
       the obligations in Article 50 AI Act enter into application.

8.1. Effects of adhering to a code of practice assessed as adequate

 (146) Providers and deployers of AI systems falling within the scope of Article 50(2) and (4)
       AI Act may demonstrate compliance with their respective transparency obligations for
       AI-generated content under those provisions by adhering to a code of practice that is
       assessed as adequate pursuant to Article 50(7) AI Act (43). Such a Code does not replace
       the AI Act or these Guidelines. It complements them by providing the only Union-wide
       recognised practical framework for providers and deployers of generative AI systems to

(41) Directive (EU) 2016/2102 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2016 on the
     accessibility of the websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies (Text with EEA relevance), OJ L
     327, 2.12.2016, pp. 1-15.

(42) Directive (EU) 2019/882 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on the accessibility
     requirements for products and services (Text with EEA relevance), PE/81/2018/REV/1, OJ L 151, 7.6.2019,
     pp. 70-115.

(43) See relevant information about the Code of Practice on Transparency of AI-Generated Content | Shaping
     Europe's digital future published on 10 June 2026.

                                                                                         47
       demonstrate compliance with those obligations, regardless of their place of
       establishment, operation, and competent market surveillance authorities.

 (147) While providers and deployers may also demonstrate compliance with those obligations
       through adequate alternative means, adherence to a code of practice that is deemed
       adequate is a straightforward, predictable, and legally certain way of demonstrating
       compliance. For signatories of a code of practice that is assessed as adequate pursuant to
       Article 50(7) AI Act (44), the Commission and the competent market surveillance
       authorities will focus their supervisory activities on assessing whether those signatories
       have adhered to the code of practice and implemented the measures contained therein.
       As adhering providers and deployers will be transparent about the measures they
       implement to comply with Article 50(2), (4) and (5) AI Act, they will benefit from
       increased trust from the Commission, the other competent market surveillance
       authorities, and other stakeholders (including the general public). Any opt-out from
       sections by signatories of a code of practice that is deemed adequate will result in those
       providers and deployers losing the benefit of facilitating the demonstration of compliance
       in that respect.

 (148) Providers and deployers that are not signatories to a code of practice that is deemed
       adequate pursuant to Article 50(7) AI Act are expected to demonstrate how they have
       complied with their obligations under Article 50(2), (4) and (5) AI Act through other
       adequate means. Furthermore, such providers and deployers are expected to explain how
       the measures they implement ensure compliance with their obligations under the AI Act.
       For instance, they should carry out a gap analysis that compares the measures they have
       implemented with the measures set out by a code of practice that is assessed as adequate.
       Since competent authorities (including the AI Office) will have less understanding of
       how providers and deployers that are not signatories to a code of practice ensure
       compliance with their obligations under Article 50(2), (4) and (5) AI Act, they will likely
       need more detailed information when monitoring for compliance. For example, providers
       not adhering to a code of practice may also be subject to a larger number of requests for
       information and requests for access to assess the effectiveness, interoperability,
       robustness and reliability of the technical solutions implemented to comply with
       Article 50(2) AI Act. Deployers may also be subject to such requests with regard to their
       labelling practices under Article 50(4) AI Act.

 (149) Competent authorities may take commitments implemented in line with a code of
       practice that is deemed adequate into account as a mitigating factor when fixing the
       amount of fines, depending on the specific circumstances (45).

 (150) If a code of practice is not deemed adequate pursuant to Article 50(7) AI Act, the
       Commission may adopt an implementing act specifying common rules for the
       implementation of the obligations of Article 50(2), (4) and (5) AI Act, which would be
       applicable to all relevant providers and deployers of AI systems falling within the scope
       of those provisions (46).

(44) See Commission Opinion on the assessment of the Code of Practice on Transparency of AI-generated content
     | Shaping Europe's digital future

(45) Article 99(7)(e) AI Act.
(46) Article 50(7) AI Act.

                                                                                         48
8.2. Market Surveillance Authorities

 (151) Market surveillance authorities designated by the Member States, the AI Office (47), and
       the European Data Protection Supervisor (48) are responsible for supervising and
       enforcing the rules for AI systems falling within their competence, including the
       transparency obligations laid down in Article 50 AI Act. Such enforcement takes place
       within the system of market surveillance and compliance of products established by
       Regulation (EU) 2019/1020 and the AI Act. The enforcement powers of market
       surveillance authorities in relation to AI systems are laid down in those regulations.
       Those authorities can take enforcement actions in relation to the obligations listed in
       Article 50 AI Act on their own initiative or following a complaint, which every affected
       person or any other natural or legal person having grounds to consider such violations
       has the right to lodge (49). The responsibilities of the market surveillance authorities
       under the AI Act do not affect the powers and tasks of other supervisory authorities or
       fundamental rights authorities under their own legal framework in situations where both
       Article 50 AI Act and that framework apply (e.g. data protection, consumer protection).

8.3. Penalties

 (152) Provider and deployers that do not comply with the applicable transparency obligations
       laid down in Article 50 AI Act may be fined up to EUR 15 000 000 or, if the offender is
       an undertaking, up to 3% of its total worldwide annual turnover for the preceding
       financial year, whichever is higher. EU institutions, bodies and agencies that violate the
       transparency obligations may be subject to administrative fines of up to EUR 750 000.
       In the case of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), including start-ups, each fine
       shall be up to the above percentages or amount, whichever is lower. The fines shall be
       effective, proportionate and dissuasive and take into account the interests of SMEs and
       small mid-cap enterprises (SMCs), including start-ups, and their economic viability.
       When deciding whether to impose an administrative fine and when deciding on the
       amount of the administrative fine in each individual case, the competent authorities
       should assess all relevant circumstances of the specific situation and, as appropriate, a
       range of factors that affect the seriousness of the infringement (e.g. nature, gravity and
       duration of the infringement and of its consequences, negligent or intentional character,
       other aggravating or mitigating circumstances, the degree of cooperation with market
       surveillance authorities etc.).

8.4. Entry into application

 (153) According to Article 113 AI Act, Article 50 AI Act will apply as from 2 August 2026.
       This requires all in scope AI systems placed on the market or put into service in the Union
       to be compliant with that provision on that date, regardless of their date of placement on

(47) As the market surveillance authority for AI systems built on GPAI models provided by the same provider
     (Article 75(1) AI Act). This covers the obligation applicable to providers under Article 50(1) and (2) AI Act.
     regarding Article 50(3) and (4) AI Act, the AI Office will only be competent if the respective GPAI model
     and system provider, is also a deployer of the system.

(48) As the market surveillance authority for the EU institutions, agencies and bodies.
(49) Article 85 AI Act.

                                                                                         49
       the market or putting into service (50). Regulation amending the AI Act (the AI
       Omnibus), which has been recently adopted by the Union legislature, envisages a
       targeted grandfathering rule only with regard to the marking and detection obligations
       under Article 50(2) AI Act for generative AI systems placed on the market or put into
       service before 2 August 2026. It gives providers of those existing systems a transitional
       period to bring their systems in conformity by 2 December 2026. Systems that are partly
       interactive and partly generative may benefit from this transitional period only with
       regard to the marking obligation under Article 50(2) AI Act, while compliance with the
       disclosure obligation for AI systems directly interacting with natural persons must be
       ensured as of 2 August 2026.

 (154) AI-generated or manipulated outputs falling within the scope of Article 50(2) AI Act
       and deep fakes within scope of Article 50(4), first subparagraph, AI Act, which have
       been generated or manipulated before 2 August 2026 do not need to be marked or labelled
       retroactively. The same applies to texts on matters of public interest falling within scope
       of Article 50(4), second subparagraph, AI Act that have been AI-generated or
       manipulated and published before 2 August 2026. Conversely, if texts that have been
       generated or manipulated before 2 August 2026 are published on or after that date, they
       need to be labelled. Considering the objective of transparency and increased trust and
       integrity of the information ecosystem pursued by the AI Act, deployers of AI systems
       and other actors who are in the possession of or disseminate pre-existing unlabelled deep
       fakes are, nonetheless, encouraged to do so without being expected to engage in
       disproportionate efforts to that end (such as auditing of pre-existing content databases or
       modifying already printed product packaging).

9. REVIEW AND UPDATE OF THE GUIDELINES

 (155) These Guidelines constitute a first interpretation with practical examples of the
       transparency obligations laid down in Article 50 AI Act. The Commission will review
       these Guidelines as soon as necessary in view of practical experience gained in the
       implementation of the transparency obligations and the pace of technological, societal,
       and regulatory developments in this area. This also includes any relevant experience from
       market surveillance enforcement actions and interpretations on Article 50 AI Act given
       by the CJEU. During such a review, the Commission may decide to withdraw or amend
       these Guidelines. The Commission encourages providers and deployers of AI systems,
       national market surveillance authorities through the AI Board, the AI Advisory forum,
       the research community, and civil society organisations to contribute to this process by
       responding to future calls for public consultation.

(50) The special grandfathering rule in Article 111(2) AI Act applies to high-risk AI systems placed on the market
     before the date of the application of the high-risk rules only with respect of the compliance of those systems
     with the requirements and obligations for high-risk AI systems. If the high-risk AI system is also subject to
     one or more transparency obligations under Article 50 AI Act, this special grandfathering rule does not apply
     since the application of the different obligations for high-risk and Article 50 transparency are cumulative and
     the grandfathering is justified and limited only with regard to the compliance with the high-risk provisions.

                                                                                         50
