conditions for processing special categories of personal data for bias detection and correction. The
report also reinstates a simplified registration requirement for non-high-risk AI systems, maintains
the extension of the simplified documentation process for medium-sized companies with minor
modifications on fines, and lightens the regulatory burden for AI systems embedded in products
already subject to sector-specific rules. Furthermore, it modifies the transitional period for
compliance with obligations to mark AI-generated content to three months.8 Finally, it envisages
that providers and deployers of AI systems should support the improvement of AI literacy among
their staff and ensure that the Commission and Member States encourage and support AI literacy in
society.

The co-legislators reached a trilogue agreement on 7 May 2026. They agreed to prohibit AI practices
generating non-consensual intimate or sexual content and child sexual abuse material, and to set
fixed deadlines for the delayed application of high-risk AI rules: 2 December 2027 for stand-alone
high-risk AI systems, and 2 August 2028 for high-risk AI systems embedded in products. The
obligation to mark AI-generated content was delayed to 2 December 2026 for systems on the
market before 2 August 2026. The co-legislators reinstated a simplified registration obligation for
non-high-risk AI systems, and the strict-necessity standard for processing special categories of
personal data for bias detection and correction. They extended the simplified documentation
process for medium-sized companies, and reinforced the AI Office's powers. They removed AI-
enabled machinery products from the direct applicability of the AI Act's high-risk regime, clarifying
that they need only comply with the sectoral approach in the Machinery Regulation. The Commission
is required to adopt delegated acts amending Annex III of the Machinery Regulation in order to
include health and safety requirements relating to AI systems that are classified as high-risk and that
are either safety components in machinery or machinery themselves.

                                                                                               7
EPRS | European Parliamentary Research Service

Member States' ambassadors to the EU (Coreper) approved the provisional agreement on 13 May
2026, and the European Parliament's IMCO and LIBE committees on 2 June 2026. Parliament's
plenary approved the agreement on 16 June 2026 (with 423 votes in favour, 57 votes against, and
174 abstentions).
Stakeholder reactions to the trilogue agreement have been mixed. For example, Digital Europe
welcomes the removal of machinery products from the direct applicability of the AI Act's high-risk
regime but regrets that the same was not done for medical devices. The European Tech Alliance
(EUTA) welcomes the delayed application of high-risk AI rules but would have wanted more
simplification. Trade association DOT Europe regrets the reduced grace period for marking AI-
generated content and several changes made to the original simplification measures. The European
consumer organisation BEUC regrets the delayed application of high-risk rules and the removal of
machinery products from the direct applicability of the AI Act's high-risk regime but is relieved that
medical devices and toys will remain in the AI Act. A non-governmental organisation, the European
Writers' Council, welcomes the prohibition of AI practices generating non-consensual intimate or
sexual content and child sexual abuse material. However, it regrets both the delayed application of
high-risk AI rules and of the obligation to mark AI-generated content.

8
                                                                                                             Digital Omnibus on AI

EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT SUPPORTING ANALYSIS

Marcelin, T., Simplifying EU digital laws for competitiveness, EPRS, European Parliament, November
2025.
Niestadt, M., Making Europe an AI continent, EPRS, European Parliament, September 2025.
Marcelin, T., AI Act implementation timeline, EPRS, European Parliament, June 2025.
Madiega, T., Artificial intelligence act, EPRS, European Parliament, September 2024.

ENDNOTES

1 A code of practice on transparency of AI-generated content was published in June 2026.
2 Within the meaning of the Digital Services Act.
3 Not just high-risk AI models, which was the case previously.
4 Such as deleting the personal data once the bias has been corrected.
5 The list of views provides an overview of the debate and is not an exhaustive account of all perspectives.
6 The Commission proposal applies a different application timeline: 12 months after the standards have been published

     for Annex I systems and six months for Annex III systems.
7 Among the members of the CCIA are some of the biggest US technology companies, such as Amazon, Apple, Google,

     Intel and Meta.
8 The Commission and the Council proposed a six-month transitional period.

