https://www.meta.com/help/artificial-intelligence/1783222608822690/
https://www.meta.com/help/artificial-intelligence/1783222608822690/

Skip to main content
AI glasses
Meta Quest
Meta VR Glasses
Muse Charm
Explore Meta
Support
Search help articles
Search
Meta Help Center
How to identify AI content on Meta products
How to identify AI content on Meta products
Updated:
9 weeks ago
Labeling and identifying AI content is different for ads.

Generative artificial intelligence (generative AI) is a tool that helps create or modify content such as images and text in new ways.

How generative AI works

Generative AI models are trained using billions of pieces of information. To generate new content, generative AI models learn about patterns and relationships between these pieces of information based on prompts or instructions.

For example, you might type a request in a generative AI tool asking for an image of 3 brown dogs running through a meadow of flowers. Or you might request a joke written in the style of a historical figure, like Shakespeare.

How AI-generated content is identified on Meta products

Content created or modified using AI tools may be identified and labeled to help promote transparency across Meta products.

There are many AI tools that can create or modify content. Some content that is made or modified using one of these tools may have an industry-standard signal that identifies the content as being created or modified using AI tools. For example, a person might edit an image using a common photo editing tool to share with their followers.

If a photo editing tool uses AI to change the size or color of an image, then the image may have a signal that shows it was edited using AI. These signals are read by Meta’s systems to determine if a label is applied to the content.

You can see if a photo or video has been created or edited using AI tools with the Meta AI Detection tool.

When AI-generated content is labeled on Meta products

There are a few ways organic content, or content that is not an ad, will be labeled on Meta products. These can include:

When Meta’s systems detect AI signals in organic content

Content made with third-party tools may contain signals that show whether the content was created or modified with AI. Content with signals we can identify indicating that it was created with AI will be labeled AI content. Content with signals indicating that it was modified using AI will not have the AI content label directly on the post, story, reel or thread. You can learn more about how the post, story, reel or thread was modified by AI by clicking the Options.

When people label their AI-generated content

People using Meta products may also be able, and in some cases required, to label their content with AI content when they share AI-generated content or content that was modified using AI.

Meta may continue to update the approach around transparency as more is learned about how people use AI-generated content across Meta technologies.

Other AI labels you might see

Labels or watermarks on Meta AI created or modified content: Any content that is created or edited using Meta’s AI tools and shared to Facebook, Instagram, or Threads as a post, story, reel, or thread may be automatically labeled as AI content or in some cases, feature a visible watermark.
AI profile labels: Some Instagram and Facebook accounts mostly create and post content that is AI-generated or modified. To help you understand what you're seeing, the creator can add an “AI creator” label to their profile. The label can also appear next to the account's content in Feed, Reels, and Stories on Instagram, or in Feed on Facebook.

Note: Not all AI content contains the information needed to identify it.

When the AI content label may be required

On Facebook, Instagram and Threads, Meta may require an AI label when content has photorealistic video or realistic-sounding audio that was digitally created, modified or altered, including with AI. This requirement does not apply to images. However, images may still receive a label if the systems detect that they were AI-generated or if they were modified using AI.

Note: There may be penalties for content shared without a label when it is required.

Examples of digitally created content that requires a label on Facebook, Instagram and Threads:

A video that appears realistic of a group of people walking around an outdoor market
An audio file of two people talking
A song created using AI-generated vocals
A reel narrated with a realistic AI-generated voiceover

Examples of digitally created content that does not require a label:

Video of an outdoor landscape, created in a style resembling a cartoon
Image of a person riding a bull (Meta does not require a label for images)

Learn more about this requirement in the Transparency Center.

Note: We will update our transparency approach as we learn more about how people use AI-generated content on our platforms. Learn more about generative AI in the Privacy Center.

Share
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
Meta Store
Meta Glasses
Ray-Ban Meta glasses
Oakley Meta glasses
Meta Ray-Ban Display
Compare glasses
AI glasses accessories
AI glasses guides
Meta Lab
Meta Quest
Meta Quest accessories
Apps and games
Meta Gift Card
Refurbished Meta Quest 3
Refurbished Meta Quest 3S
Refurbished Ray-Ban Meta glasses
More from Ray-Ban
Meta Quest: Play now. Pay later.
Meta Warranty Plus
Meta Quest referrals
Education discount
AI glasses bulk order inquiry
Blog
Store support and legal
Meta Help Center
Order status
Returns
Find a product demo
Find a store
Legal
Terms of sale
Meta Quest safety center
Community
Creators
Developers
Businesses
Non-profits
Download SDKs
Made for Meta partner program
VR for Good
Our actions
Data and privacy
Responsible business practices
Accessibility
Elections
About us
About Meta
Company Info
Careers
Media gallery
Brand resources
For investors
Newsroom
Site terms and policies
Community standards
Privacy policy
Terms
Cookie policy
App support
Facebook Help Center
Messenger Help Center
Instagram Help Center
WhatsApp Help Center
Workplace Help Center
Meta Verified
Meta Account (Single Login)
English (US)

Parents: Important Guidance & Safety Warnings for children’s use.

For additional details on our AI Glasses and Meta Quest products and services, please visit the product pages and review the related legal disclosures. See details for our current promotions.

OPTIONAL FINANCING is subject to eligibility and lender terms. For details on current financing offers, see current offers and Financing Disclosures.

†DISNEY+
PG-13 for extended sequences of sci-fi violence and action.
Content rating may differ in your country. Disney+ subscription required. Must be 18+ to subscribe. © 2026 Disney and its related entities. © 2026 & ™ Lucasfilm Ltd. All rights reserved. Availability of 3D playback on Disney+ varies by region. Some titles shown may not be available in 3D in your country.

††NBA
Select NBA games only. Availability varies by region. Subscription may be required.

MUSE CHARM
Muse Charm requires you to sign up for Muse. Download the Muse app here: https://muse.ai/

©2026 Meta.