                         2025 SAG-AFTRA COMMERCIALS CONTRACT
                                  MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT

Memorandum of Agreement ("MOA") made by and between SAG-AFTRA ("SAG-AFTRA" or
the "Union") and The Joint Policy Committee, LLC (the "JPC") on this 8th day of May, 2025. This
MOA sets forth the agreed upon revisions to the 2016 SAG-AFTRA Commercials Contract, as
amended by the 2019 MOA and 2022 MOA, based upon the agreements exchanged by the JPC
and the Union on April 11, 2025. Except as otherwise set forth herein, the terms and conditions
set forth in the 2016 SAG-AFTRA Commercials Contract, as amended by the 2019 MOA and
2022 MOA, remain unchanged.

    1. Revise Introductory paragraph as follows:

                  CONTRACT made by and between SCREEN ACTORS GUILD-AMERICAN
                  FEDERATION OF TELEVISION AND RADIO ARTISTS, a California
                  Delaware non-profitstock corporation, herein called the "UNION" and THE
                  JOINT POLICY COMMITTEE, LLC, a New York limited liability company,
                  herein called the "JPC," acting on behalf of advertisers and advertising agencies
                  who have authorized the JPC to act on their behalf, a list of which has been filed
                  with the Union and is by this reference included as a part of this Contract, and others
                  including advertisers and advertising agencies (as those terms are commonly
                  understood in the industry) who sign this Contract or Letters of Adherence hereto,
                  hereinafter individually referred to as "Producer", as that term is defined in Sections
                  1.1.c and 58.C.

    2. Amend Section 1(C) ­ Employment by a Producer as follows:

                  In order for a performer to be "employed by a Producer" as required by Paragraphs
                  A and B above, the performer must be employed by a bona fide producer of
                  commercials covered by the Contract, such as an advertiser or advertising
                  agency (as those terms are commonly understood in the industry). The Union
                  reserves the right to reject or revoke the signatory status of any company if that
                  company is not a bona fide producer of commercials, such as an advertiser or
                  advertising agency.

    3. Amend Section 2 ­ Effective Date and Term to reflect the new term of the Contract as
         follows:

                  This Contract shall be for a three (3) year term commencing on April 1, 2022 2025
                  and continuing to and including March 31, 2025 2028, and shall continue in effect
                  thereafter until terminated by either party by 60 days' notice, in writing, to the other.
4. Amend Section 8.B. ­ Non-Professional Testimonial Waiver as follows, with the
    underlined revisions to sunset March 31, 2028 unless otherwise bargained, and create a
    new field titled "Description of Testimonial":

             1. Stet

             2. Stet

             3. Stet

             4. The person has not been paid to render services as a principal performer in
             a commercial, a play, a television program, a theatrical motion picture, or an
             entertainment program made for Internet or New Media. Provided, however,
             that Producer's payment to an endorser (including individuals who have a
             relationship with the endorser) to provide for consideration in signing the
             declaration or otherwise comply with state employment laws shall not
             preclude Producer from using endorser (including individuals who have a
             relationship with the endorser) for one additional commercial. The person
             shall sign a declaration in the form attached as Exhibit A, a copy of which shall be
             provided to the Union within sixty (60) days of the first airing of the commercial;

             5. Stet

             6. The person's appearance in the commercial consists of him or her them
             describing their experiences and/or opinions of the product, service or advertiser
             being advertised, consistent with legal and regulatory requirements for
             testimonials. Any experiences and/or opinions must be independently
             verifiable and typical of those of a reasonable consumer in a similar situation
             would experience. The person may not deliver slogans or taglines;
             7. Stet

             8. Stet

             9. Stet

5. Amend Section 17.A ­ Restrictions on Use of Commercials; Additional Services, as
    modified by the 2019 and 2022 MOAs as follows:

             In addition to the foregoing, with respect to social media and YouTube:
             1. Social Media: If a commercial appears on a social media site or YouTube
             after the expiration of the MPU but is not relevant to any current campaign, does
             not include any paid exhibition, and remains in the feed tied to its original posting
             date, no further payment shall be required beyond the original use payment

                                                          2
             provided that Producer complies with the Union's request or Performer's request,
             if made, to remove the commercial from the social media site and/or YouTube.

             2. YouTube: Provided that the below conditions are met and with the
             understanding that the following is a minimum term that individual
             performers may bargain over and above, as with every other minimum term
             of the Contract, liability for the exhibition of a commercial on an advertiser's
             and/or agency's YouTube channel(s) in violation of Section 17 after the
             expiration of the MPU (an "Unauthorized Use") shall be fixed at double scale
             calculated based on the duration of the Unauthorized Use, but to not exceed
             two (2) years, applying the Traditional Digital rate then in effect;

6. Amend Section 17.D. ­ Restrictions on Use of Commercials; Additional Services as
    follows:

             D. No service of the principal performer is contracted for except as specified in this
             Contract. This subsection is not intended to prevent a principal performer from
             contracting for services of a kind not covered by this Contract by individual contract
             at such rates of pay and under such conditions as Producer and the principal
             performer shall agree, subject only to the requirement that it shall not be in conflict
             with this collective bargaining agreement. Producer shall not require a principal
             performer to include such services as a part of their employment under this Contract
             but must bargain separately for such services, including, but not limited to,
             translation, interpreting, and consulting (e.g., with respect to disabilities in
             connection with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990), if requested by
             Producer and agreed to by the principal performer.

7. Amend Section 18 ­ Public Service Announcement/Government Agency Messages to
    amend paragraph 4 as follows:

             In seeking a waiver under this Section, Producer shall obtain the consent of the
             Union before seeking the consent of the principal performer. Provided that a
             principal performer consents in writing to the waiver of additional compensation
             beyond the minimum fees due under Section 20, Minimum Compensation, the
             Union will grant the right to unlimited use, including all media covered by this
             Contract, of the message for one year beginning not later than 15 working days
             after the first delivery of the public service announcement to television stations or
             13 weeks after commencement of the maximum use period, whichever first occurs.
             All media time must be donated. Should the public service announcement or
             government agency message be utilized on purchased time, the waiver of additional
             compensation for the use of such messages will be revoked and full use and reuse
             fees must be paid to the performer(s) in accordance with the applicable provisions
             of the Contract beginning with the first use on purchased media time, subject to
             Section 30, Maximum Period of Use of Commercials. The Ad Council and the

                                                          3
             Partnership to End Addiction shall or shall cause their agency or vendor to,
             simultaneously provide the Union copies of all notices to stations, networks,
             providers, etc. alerting them that the allowed period of use is to expire. Copies
             shall be sent to commercialsreporting@sagaftra.org.

8. Amend Section 18 ­ Public Service Announcement/Government Agency Messages to
    amend paragraph 6 as follows:

             In the event that an Ad Council public service announcement is used after the
             expiration of its MPU, the performer or the Union shall notify the Ad Council of
             the unauthorized use. Upon delivery by the Ad Council to the Union of: (i)
             evidence of the communication to stations of the expiration date of the PSA; (ii)
             evidence of the sending of a take-down notice to the station(s); and (iii) an
             assignment by the copyright holder of its cause of action for copyright
             infringement the PSA Claim Agreement as to the Union represented performers
             in the PSA, the Union and performer shall withdraw the claim.

9. Amend Section 19.B.2.(b)(i) and (ii) ­ Non-Air Commercials to increase off-camera
    solo/duo/group rates to be consistent with off-camera rate (50% of the standard off-camera
    session rate), as set forth below. These rates shall be reflected in the rate sheet to be
    attached to the Contract as Exhibit XX.

10. Amend Section 20 ­ Minimum Compensation Fees Per Commercial; Session Fees to
    reflect that within 60 days of ratification of the Contract, increase wages and use fees by
    five percent (5%) in year 1 (effective April 1, 2025), four percent (4%) in year 2 (effective
    April 1, 2026), and three percent (3%) in year 3 (effective April 1, 2027). The annual rate
    increase will apply to new commercials produced in a year and commercials renewed
    following expiration of the MPU. The wage increases will not apply to Class A per use
    and cycle caps, all cable rates, Streaming Platforms, and Traditional Digital with Paid
    YouTube.

11. Amend Section 20 ­ Minimum Compensation; Fees Per Commercial; Session Fees to add
    new Subsection I as follows:

             I. All allowances, adjustments, and fees shall be increased by the same
             percentage as any agreed-upon wage increase applicable to Section 20,
             Minimum Compensation, in this and future negotiations.

                      Note:
                               Schedule A.I.F. ­ Makeup, Hairdress, Wardrobe and Wardrobe
                               Allowance
                               Schedule A.I.BB. ­ Flight Insurance
                               Schedule A.FF.2.(vi) ­ Dancer
                               Schedule A.FF.2.(ix) ­ Dancer

                                                          4
12. Amend Section 28 ­ Limitation of Use in Commercials of Material produced Under Other
    Screen Actors Guild, AFTRA or SAG-AFTRA Contracts, as modified by the 2022 MOA,
    as follows:

             Computer generated images or voices of a performer created by any
             technology now known or hereafter developed (i.e., "digital doubles") may not
             be used to evade the provision of the Commercials Contract or Audio
             Commercials Contract.

13. Amend Section 30.A. ­ Maximum Period of Use, as modified by the 2022 MOA as
    follows:

             A. Except as provided below for animated cartoon commercials and except as
             provided in subsection B hereof, the maximum period during which a commercial
             may be used shall be not more than 2124 months beginning 10 business days after
             the start of on-camera principal photography after the date of commencement
             of the first use of the commercial or 13 weeks after the commencement of the
             first fixed cycle as defined in Section 31, Holding Fee -- Fixed Cycle. The
             maximum period during which an animated cartoon commercial may be used shall
             be no more than 2124 months commencing with the earlier of the date of the first
             use of the commercial or 13 weeks following the first recording date for off-camera
             recording, unless the off-camera recording is produced before completion of the
             animation, in which event the maximum use period for such animated cartoon
             commercial shall be 24 months commencing with the date of the first fixed cycle
             for the off-camera principal performers.

             The bargaining parties will direct the payroll services to report the date of the final
             productiontenth business day after on-camera principal photography to
             performers as a part of their session payments for all commercials. Maintain the
             provisions of Section 30 to the extent that they are consistent with the foregoing.

14. Amend Section 30.D. ­ Maximum Period of Use, as modified by the 2019 MOA as
    follows:

             D. The right to use a commercial ceases upon expiration of the maximum period
             of use. In order to obtain continued usage rights, Producer must negotiate with
             principal performer and obtain the principal performer's consent. If Producer is
             unable to find the performer after good faith efforts it shall notify the Union, and if
             the Union is unable to find the performer within thirty (30) days, Producer may
             renew the use of the commercial at the rate paid to the performer during the prior
             maximum period of use. While performers may always negotiate for more
             favorable terms than those set forth in the Contract, renegotiations shall follow
             the structure of the Contract. If performers demand renewal terms
             inconsistent with the structure of the Contract, Producer may contact the

                                                          5
             Union, and the Union will facilitate such renewal discussions. In cases where
             the producer believes that a renegotiation may have been inconsistent with the
             structure of the contract, the JPC may bring that to the IUSC for discussion.

15. Add a new Section 37 ­ Editing, deleting Section 20.G ­ Alternate Scenes or Lines, Section
    26 ­ Editing of Commercials, and Appendix B ­ Editing of the 2022 MOA as follows:

             37. EDITING OF COMMERCIALS

             The following terms shall apply to alterations of commercials produced under the
             Contract, and any commercials transferred per Section 56:

             The below edits do not result in a new commercial for session and/or use purposes.
             All such edits may run in the same market at the same time and will be considered
             one commercial for use purposes. Fees due in connection with shooting alternate
             scenes and lines and product changes are due not later than fifteen (15) business
             days after the services are rendered. Shorter/longer/same length version fees, paid
             edit fees, and addressable edit fees are due within fifteen (15) business days of first
             use of the shorter/longer/same length version, paid edit, or addressable edit. Per
             Section 37.G., all other changes to a commercial result in a new commercial for
             session and use purposes ("Unpermitted Edits").

                  A. Changes Made During the Session:

                           1. Alternate Scenes, Alternate Lines, and Directorial Changes:

                                    (i) Alternate Scenes and Lines: Notwithstanding anything
                                        contained in this Section 37 to the contrary, alternate scenes
                                        shot and/or lines recorded for any reason for a specific single
                                        commercial during a session, whether or not pre-scripted,
                                        shall not be considered new or separate commercials for the
                                        purpose of calculating the number of session fees due,
                                        subject to the conditions set forth in this Section 37. If
                                        Producer requires principal performer to perform on or off-
                                        camera changes under this Section 37.A.1, Producer shall
                                        pay each principal performer a single additional session fee,
                                        regardless of the number of changes recorded, which shall
                                        not be credited against any other payment due under this
                                        Contract. All performers in the original scene must remain
                                        in the same performer category in the alternate scenes (e.g.,
                                        the performer cannot be downgraded or outgraded during the
                                        filming or recording process).

                                    (ii) Directorial Changes: In accordance with past practice,
                                        directorial changes based upon the director's discretionary
                                        judgment and creative skills may be made in the course of

                                                          6
             shooting or recording without such changes constituting
             additional commercials, provided that such changes relate to
             the specific storyboard, script and fundamental concept of
             the commercial. Payment is required by this section (ii) only
             when the alternate scene or line is reflected in a script or
             storyboard or when it does not relate to the fundamental
             concept of the commercial and shall not be credited against
             any other payment due under this Contract.

2. Product Changes Beyond the Nature of a Tag:

    Any principal performer in a commercial that qualifies under
    Section 37.D., shall be paid a separate session fee for rendering
    services for each such product change, which shall not be credited
    against any other payment due under this Contract.

B. Shorter/Longer/Same Length Versions.

Producer may create shorter/longer/same length versions (collectively,
"Versions") without triggering a new commercial. Each Version must use
only footage from the same production, including alternate scenes and/or
lines as set forth above, provided that such footage relates to the same script
or storyboard and does not create an Unpermitted Edit of the longest version
produced. Provided that performers only shoot a single script or storyboard
(including alternate scenes and lines as set forth in A. above), if Producer
creates scripts and storyboards for the Versions for the purpose of advertiser
recordkeeping and performer transparency for the number of Versions in
which they appear, it shall not trigger an Unpermitted Edit. However, if
performers are required to shoot separate scripts or storyboards, each script
shall be considered a new commercial for session and use purposes. This
does not authorize the creation of "wild footage" as that term is understood
in the Industry. By way of clarification and not limitation, Producer's
library footage (such as food footage) and running footage that are not
"from the same production" may be used. The integration and running
footage language of Schedule D.III.9 and Schedule D.III.8.D and E shall
apply to the use of the library and running footage.

First Version             No additional compensation
Second Version            No additional compensation
Third Version             One session fee
Fourth Version (and each  30% of a session fee per Version
subsequent Versions)

7
    The category of the session fee is based upon the performer's original
    category (e.g., on-camera principal or off-camera principal) in the base
    commercial. If the performer's face no longer appears in the Version, no
    payment is due to the performer. Version fees shall not be credited against
    any other payment due under this Contract.

C. Permitted Changes.

    No additional payments are due to any performers in the commercial other
    than any principal performer(s) engaged to render services in connection
    with the permitted change. Principal performers making such changes shall
    be paid separately a session fee and, if applicable, the tag rates for each such
    tag change beyond one. These fees are due not later than fifteen (15)
    business days after the services are rendered and shall not be credited
    against any other payment due under this Contract.

         1. Dealer Identification. Separate and different dealer identification
             for the same production or service may be included in the beginning
             and/or end and/or in the body of a commercial for the same
             advertiser. For example, a commercial advertising a specific
             perfume may be changed to designate the different dealers in
             different localities where such perfume may be purchased.

         2. Introduction and Ending Tag Changes; Package Changes. The
             introduction and/or ending of a commercial made for a designated
             advertiser may be changed, without changing the body (either the
             on-camera or the off-camera portion) as long as the products
             advertised are of the same type and class and are advertised under
             the same brand name. Without in any way changing the meaning of
             this subsection C.2., the following interpretations are agreed upon
             for illustrative purposes only:

                  (i) The term "ending" means "tag" as that term is customarily
                      used in the Industry, i.e., a short appendage to the body of a
                      commercial. The term "introduction" shall mean the
                      equivalent of a "tag" in the opening of a commercial.

                  (ii) Under "same type and class" of products, toothpaste and
                      toothpowder would be considered as belonging to the same
                      type and class; toothpaste and shampoo would not. Canned
                      corn and canned peas would be considered as belonging to
                      the same type and class; canned peas and canned chicken
                      would not.

                  (iii)Under "same brand name," different packaging of the same

                                      8
             product would be considered as proper.

         (iv)Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 37,
             changes may be made in the introduction, body or ending of
             a commercial made for a designated advertiser only to reflect
             a different package of the same product sold under the same
             brand name. It is the intention of this paragraph to permit
             changes to reflect the change in packaging only and not to
             permit any other change in the commercial message.

3. Factual Information Tags. Commercials advertising products
    and/or services that require different and specific factual
    information with respect to destinations, local points, and times of
    departure, frequency of service, telephone numbers; URLs/ QR
    codes or similar Internet, mobile and digital media identifiers; rates;
    pricing; geographic availability and dates (but only when a date is
    with reference to any of the items of factual information permitted
    above), may be changed to reflect this information without such
    changed commercials being deemed Unpermitted Edits (i.e., new
    commercials for use purposes). Such changes may be made by
    inserting new on-camera and/or off-camera elements which set forth
    only such different facts. Such new elements shall be in the nature
    of "tags" as that term is commonly used in the Industry, except that
    in these cases they may be inserted in the body of the commercial;
    provided, however, that the commercial shall in all other respects
    remain the same.

4. Legal/Network Clearance Changes. The on-and off-camera
    message(s) of a commercial made for a designated advertiser may
    be changed to comply with legal or network clearance requirements.

5. Payment for Dealer Identifications, Tags and Legal/Network
    Clearance Changes. When a principal performer is called for the
    sole purpose of making dealer identifications or tags, or changes
    under subsection 4 hereof, they shall be paid a session fee, and the
    following rates for each dealer identification, tag, or legal/network
    clearance change made beyond one:

No. of Tags/Dealer IDs/Changes  On-Camera  Off-Camera
2 ­ 25                          $XX        $XX
26 ­ 50                         $XX        $XX
51+                             $XX        $XX

Use fees shall, however, be payable on the basis of one commercial.
If during a single session, an on or off-camera principal performer
renders services in a base commercial whose format is designed to

9
    accommodate dealer identification, tags, or legal/network clearance
    changes, as well as in one or more dealer identifications, tags, or
    legal/network clearance changes as permitted under Section 37,
    payment of the session fee shall cover payment for the base
    commercial and also for one such dealer identification, tag, or
    legal/network clearance changes. The tag rate shall be payable for
    each additional dealer identification, tag, or legal/network clearance
    changes produced at the same session.

6. Off-Camera Message/Supers/Music. The off-camera message,
    super, and/or music of a commercial made for a designated
    advertiser may be changed; provided the resulting commercial
    relates to the same storyboard, script, and concept, and does not
    change the commercial message.

7. Foreign Language Voiceover. A foreign language voiceover may
    be added to a commercial.

8. Rearrangement of On-Camera Material. The on-camera portion
    of a commercial made for a designated advertiser may be re-edited
    or rearranged as long as no substantial change is made in the
    material.

9. Recalls/Retakes. Prior to first televising commercials made for a
    particular advertiser, principal performer may be recalled for one
    session fee to make reasonable changes and corrections in existing
    soundtrack or to make changes or corrections in photography in the
    nature of retakes. Subsequent calls for such purpose will require
    separate applicable payment for each commercial in connection with
    which such services are rendered. In no event may any fees payable
    under these provisions be credited against any other compensation
    due principal performer.

10. Product/Service Name Changes -- Same Advertiser

         (i) Same product/service -- Company name/trade name
             remains constant

              Variations of a commercial advertising the same product or
              service of a single advertiser, which always use the
              company name or company trade name as part of the
              product or service name, may be treated as a single
              commercial for use payment purposes. The variations may
              change the company or company trade name anywhere in
              the commercial, but the commercial must otherwise remain
              the same.

                            10
                      EXAMPLE:
                      A commercial for the Marcus Company for the same
                      sandwich spread sold as Marcus' Red Ribbon Spread in one
                      area and Marcus' Gold Ribbon Spread in another area and
                      which otherwise meets all the above requirements, qualifies
                      under this paragraph (i).

                  (ii) Same product -- Different brand names

                       Variations of a commercial advertising the same product of
                       a single national advertiser may be treated as a single
                       commercial for use payment purposes. The variations
                       reflecting the different name by which the product is known
                       and marketed in a different geographic area may be made
                       anywhere in the commercial, but the commercial must
                       otherwise remain the same.

                       This paragraph (ii) shall not be applicable to generic
                       products.

                      EXAMPLE:
                      A commercial for Unilever for the same mayonnaise sold as
                      Hellman's Mayonnaise in one area and Best Foods
                      Mayonnaise in another area, and which otherwise meets all
                      the above requirements, qualifies under this paragraph (ii).

         11. Special Offers & Promotions. A commercial for an advertiser may
             be changed to reflect different special offers and promotions, sales
             or giveaways, sweepstakes or sales events.

D. Paid Edits: Any change to a commercial described below shall constitute
    a "Paid Edit." All principals in the commercial as edited shall receive the
    following Paid Edit fee(s) based on the session fee for on-camera or off-
    camera, as applicable. The Paid Edit fee shall be paid for each commercial
    after the base commercial. Edit fee(s) shall not be credited against any other
    payment due under the Contract. The category of the session fee is based
    upon the performer's original category (e.g., on-camera principal or off-
    camera principal) in the base commercial. If the performer's face no longer
    appears in the Paid Edit, then no payment is due to the performer.

First Edit       1x session fee
Second Edit      75% of a session fee
Third Edit       50% of a session fee

             11
Fourth Edit (and all subsequent 30% of a session fee per Edit
edits)

1. The product may be changed to another product in the same product
    line or to a different variant of the same product (e.g., a different
    color, size, scent or flavor) beyond the nature of a tag;

2. The edit changes the setting or adds an additional setting to the
    commercial, provided such changes can be made during the same
    production via CGI or green screen, or other technologies and do
    not otherwise require the cast to travel to a different location or set.
    Producer may also use CGI, green screen or other technologies to
    change props that align with the setting change (e.g., changing a
    surfboard on a pickup truck to a snowboard).

3. Performers may be asked to shoot the same script/storyboard
    featuring the same product/service or another product in the same
    product line with different wardrobe and props to align with the
    edited background change.

E. Addressable Edits: Addressable commercials (defined as commercials that
    are specifically produced to show in multiple variations, each of which will
    be dynamically inserted at the level of individual households and devices)
    may be edited to create an unlimited number of versions (i.e., Addressable
    Edits) upon payment of the Addressable Edit Fee without creating a new
    commercial, provided that the only footage and/or soundtrack used to make
    the edit is taken from the original production and that the edit does not
    change the commercial concept or message. Upon request, Producer shall
    provide documentation that the commercial is an addressable commercial.
    Performers appearing in Addressable Edits shall be paid the following fees,
    which shall not be credited against any other payment due under the
    Contract.

On-Camera Principal One-time fee equal to 200% of the on-camera
                               session rate.

Off-Camera Principal  50% of the off-camera session rate for every
                      Addressable Edit created if the off-camera
                      principal renders services for the edit.

                      If the off-camera principal does not render
                      services, then they receive a one-time fee
                      equal to 200% of the off-camera session rate.

12
Extra      If the off-camera principal renders services on
           some, but not all, of the Addressable Edits,
           they shall receive both a one-time fee equal to
           200% of the off-camera session rate and 50%
           of the off-camera session rate for every
           Addressable Edit created for which the off-
           camera principal renders services.
           One-time fee equal to 50% of the unlimited
           use extra session rate.

1. The commercial may be edited to show a different setting (e.g.,
    beach to rolling hills);

2. The product may be edited to show a different product in the same
    product line (e.g., W-150 to W-250);

3. The product and/or package may be edited to show a different
    variant of the same product (e.g., a different color, size, scent or
    flavor) beyond the nature of a tag; and

4. Subject to Section 20.F., Joint Promotions any element other than
    the products may be edited to show a different element:

         Example: A surfboard in a car commercial may be replaced with
         a snowboard in the same commercial;

       Example: The driver in a car commercial is wearing a bathing
       suit in one edit and a ski jacket in the second;

       Example: A shot of a group of men walking past a car in a car
       commercial is replaced with a different shot of the same action;

       Example: A female driver in a car commercial is speaking to a
       male passenger in one edit, and in the second a male passenger
       is now the driver and the female driver is now the passenger; and

       Example: Footage of a female driver is switched out for a male
       driver, both on the same dusty dirt road in an F-150.

F. Advertiser's Library. Producer may submit a commercial to an
    advertiser's Advertising Library (or other similar asset management
    platform) for the purpose of allowing advertiser or its other agencies to
    create (a) unlimited shorter/longer/same length versions for use in
    Traditional Digital by paying each principal performer four (4) session fees
    for such editing rights during the Maximum Period of Use; (b) unlimited
    edits for use in Traditional Digital by paying each principal performer seven
    (7) session fees for such unlimited editing rights during the Maximum
    Period of Use.

       13
    G. Unpermitted Edits. Unpermitted edits shall include, but not be limited to,
         the following types of edits, which shall result in a new commercial for use
         purposes:

             1. The edit changes the concept of the commercial. The "concept"
                  refers to the basic idea by which the commercial conveys the
                  commercial message.

             2. The edit changes the commercial message, which refers to the
                  specific message that the advertiser wants to convey to the consumer
                  about the product or service being advertised in a manner that is not
                  allowed as set forth herein.

             3. The edit adds new on-camera principal(s) to the commercial;
                  provided, however, that Producer may add an on-camera principal
                  into a longer or shorter version if the footage was produced during
                  the same production and related to the same script or storyboard, in
                  which case that shall be a Permitted Edit.

             4. The edit adds an additional product or brand in a manner that is not
                  allowed under the editing provisions set forth herein.

    H. Commercial Editing Examples. The following examples illustrate the
         editing rules set forth in the Section 37 of the Contract:

                                EXAMPLE 1: Automobile
The Production:
Performers are given a :30 script and storyboard titled, "Spring has Sprung", which
features a married couple who are extremely excited about the different FARO
models at the dealership. They cannot decide which model they would like and are
having a typical marital conversation about the decision. The script includes a few
alternate lines so that Producer can see which will work best in the commercial both
for timing purposes and for humor.

Explanation: Because the performers were given a single script and storyboard,
including alternate lines and scenes, and shot a single script, this is one commercial
for use purposes. Principal performers shooting the alternate line(s) are paid a
single additional session fee.

Base Spot:
:30 commercial advertising the full line of FARO models (Sportster, Aspen, Milan,
and Zen) for a Spring Sales event. The commercial is set in the dealership and
shows the full lineup of 2026 vehicles. A couple is running from vehicle to vehicle
shouting how they just can't decide. The wife tells her husband that they have to
make the decision without calling his mother.

                                          14
     VO: "Come to our Spring Sales Event"
     End shot of the full model lineup (Sportster, Aspen, Milan, and Zen)
     VO: "Come by a dealership today and pick up your favorite FARO."

Same Length Version: :20/:10 taggable version
Same as above but :20 body is shortened, the wife's line is shortened to remove the
reference to calling mom, and a :10 tag cuts to running footage of the Sportster.

     VO: "For a limited time you can lease a 2026 FARO Sportster for just $399
         at the Spring Sales Event"

     End shot of the full model lineup (Sportster, Aspen, Milan, and Zen)

Explanation: This is the first Version, so no additional fees are due to the
performers. The tag change is a permitted change because you are still promoting
the entire product line, and the commercial message has not changed. The off-
camera performer recording the tag is paid a session fee and the applicable tag
rate for any additional tags beyond one.
Permitted Changes: Tagging
Same as the :20 version above but a new :10 tag cuts to running footage of the
Aspen.

     VO: "For a limited time you can lease a 2026 FARO Aspen for just $299.99
         at the Easter Sales Event"

     End shot of the full model lineup (Sportster, Aspen, Milan and Zen)

Explanation: This is the same shorter version so no shorter/longer/same length fees
are due to any principal performers. The tag change is a permitted change because
you are still promoting the entire product line and the commercial message has not
changed. The off-camera performer recording the tag is paid a session fee and the
applicable tag rate for any additional tags beyond one.

Unpermitted Edit Resulting in a New Commercial:
:30 commercial for FARO's full model lineup of electric vehicles (Sportster,
Aspen, Milan, and Zen) for the Spring Sales Event. The commercial is set in the
dealership and shows the full model lineup of electric vehicles. A couple is running
from vehicle to vehicle shouting how they just can't decide.

     VO: "Come to our Spring Sales Event and get the EV that's right for you"
     End shot of the full model lineup of EV's

Explanation: This is an unpermitted edit as you changed the type of vehicle being
advertised to EVs, which were not shown in the base spot. Principal Performers
would receive a separate set of use and holding fee payments for a new commercial.
Extras, if applicable, would receive a one-time integration payment.

                                          15
                 EXAMPLE 2: Automobile

The Production:

Performers are given a :60 script and storyboard titled, "Weekend at the Lake",
which includes two alternate ending scenes. The spot features three couples
packing up their different model Walker trucks for a weekend away. The script
also includes features of the different Walker trucks. Each couple is shown
enjoying certain features of the vehicle ­ the speaker system, the leather interior the
digital-on-demand safety system, and towing capacity. The advertiser is unsure
how they want the commercial to end, so they have a couple of alternate scenes
they would like to try. The first ending shows a wide shot of the couples sitting by
a fire, the second option shows them making s'mores by the fire, and the final
option is an end shot of the three trucks and in the background, we see the couples
greeting each other. Producer knows that the advertiser wants four shorter versions.
For recordkeeping and transparency, Producer creates scripts and boards for the
four shorter versions so that performers know which shorter versions they will
appear in. Performers only shoot the single script and storyboard for the :60 with
the alternate scenes.

Explanation: Even though the performers received scripts and storyboards that
show each of the shorter versions that they are expected to appear in, because the
performers shot a single script and storyboard, including alternate scenes, this is
one commercial for use purposes. Principal performers shooting one or more
alternate scenes will be paid a single additional session fee as payment for all
alternate scenes they shoot.

Base Spot:
:60 commercial advertising Walker trucks (W-150, W-250, and W-350) featuring
couples heading out for a weekend camping trip. The commercial shows: 1) a
couple driving the W-150 through the woods, 2) a couple driving the W-350 towing
a boat, 3) a couple in the W-250 happily listening to music while we see a close-up
of the speakers with the super "Speakers", 4) the first couple in the W-150 with a
closeup of the leather and the super, "Genuine Leather" and we see the digital-on-
demand safety system with the super, "Safety", and 5) the W-350 with the boat
again.

 VO: "Walker knows how to make trucks that take you places with
    amazing sound, luxury, safety, and all the horsepower you need for towing.

    Walker gets you there."
 End shot of all three trucks meeting up at the lake.

Shorter Versions:
     :15 that shows the couple driving the Walker W-250, and the camera then
         turns to highlight the speakers (with additional interior footage not in the

         :60) in the car with the super "Speakers". The VO says: "With great sound,

                 16
         Walker gets you there." End shot of full line of trucks with the couples
         greeting each other in the background.
     :15 that shows the couple in the Walker W-150, and the camera then turns
         to highlight the driver's seat with the super, "Genuine Leather" and more
         footage (shot during the production but not used in the base :60) of the
         couple smiling while seated comfortably. The VO says: "In luxury, Walker
         gets you there." End shot of full line of trucks with the couples greeting
         each other in the background.
     :15 that shows the couple in the Walker W-150, and the camera then turns
         to highlight the digital-on-demand safety system with the super, "Safety", a
         scene is lifted directly from the :60. The VO says: "Safely, Walker gets you
         there." End shot of full line of trucks.
     :30 that shows the couple in the Walker W-250 singing with the super,
         "Speakers", and the couple in the W-350 towing the boat. The VO says:
         "All you need for the weekend. Walker gets you there." End shot of the
         couples enjoying s'mores by the fire.

Explanation: These would all be considered shorter versions because 1) they are
all based on the single :60 script/storyboard shot by the performers, even though
for transparency and recordkeeping the principals were given a copy of the
script/storyboard for the shorter version in which they appeared, 2) the footage
used is from the same production (other than any previously produced running
footage) and 3) the commercial message remains the same-- "Walker gets you
there." Therefore, in addition to the session fee that was paid to each principal
performer who shot the alternate scenes, an additional session fee would be due to
any principal performer(s) appearing in a third shorter version, and 30% of a
session fee due to any principal performer(s) appearing in a fourth shorter version.
For clarity, Version payments follow the performer and the number of Versions the
performer has appeared in, not the total number of Versions made by Producer.

Unpermitted Edit:
The three couples are shown in the interior of each of the trucks. The end shot is a
Walker Clarity packed with gear, and the VO says: "Packed for the weekend.
Walker gets you there."

Explanation: This is an unpermitted edit because a new model (the Clarity) is
introduced that was not originally shown in the base spot. Principal Performers
would receive a separate set of use and holding fee payments for a new commercial.
Extras, if applicable, would receive a one-time integration payment.

                               EXAMPLE 3: Air Freshener
The Production:
Performers on set are given a script and storyboard for a :30 titled, "Ozzy". It shows
a couple preparing their home for company. They are cleaning and realize that
Ozzy's litter box smells unpleasant. The script includes two product changes
requiring reshoots: one for a plug-in scent change and one for the reed diffuser

                                          17
product variation change. Performers first shoot using a vanilla-scented plug-in air
freshener, then they shoot the same script and scene showing a spring-time-scented
plug-in, and finally they shoot the same script and scene showing the vanilla-
scented reed diffuser.

Explanation: Since the performers shot a single script and storyboard with the
same commercials message, this is one commercial for use purposes. The vanilla-
scented reed diffuser and spring-time- scented plug-in are variations in the same
product line, but the product changes were beyond the nature of a tag. Therefore,
the on-camera principals who shoot the scenes with the product changes are paid
an additional session fee for each product change. In this case, each on-camera
principal is paid 2 additional session fees.

Base Spot:
:30 commercial advertising the brand's air fresheners. A couple getting ready to
have company over is shown using the vanilla scented plug-in to make the house
smell fresh for the gathering.

       VO: "Guests will never have to know about Ozzy's litter box."
       End card: We keep your home smelling fresh.

Paid Edits:
     :30 commercial is edited to show the couple plugging in the spring-time-
         scented plug-in instead of the vanilla-scented plug-in. The VO says:
         "Guests will never have to know about Ozzy's litter box." End card: We
         keep your home smelling fresh.
     :30 commercial is edited to show the couple setting up the reed diffuser as
         opposed to the plug-in. VO: Guests will never have to know about Ozzy's
         litter box. End card: We keep your home smelling fresh.

Explanation: Since the product change is in the body of the commercial beyond the
nature of a tag, these are paid edits. In addition to the two session fees that were
paid to each on-camera principal involved in shooting the product changes, the
paid edit fees are due to those principal performers in the paid edit(s).

Unpermitted Edit:
:15 commercial is edited to show the couple setting up the reed diffuser as opposed
to the plug-in. Ozzy and his litter box have been removed from the commercial.
VO: The fastest and easiest way to keep your home smelling fresh. End card: Try
our vanilla-scented diffuser available at your nearest grocer.

Explanation: This is an unpermitted edit because the commercial message has
changed from eliminating the cat litter odor while preparing for your guests, to the
product is the fastest and easiest way to freshen your home. Principal performers
would receive a separate set of use and holding fee payments for a new commercial.
Extras, if applicable, would receive a one-time integration payment.

                                          18
                       EXAMPLE 4: Bank/Financial Institution

Base Spot:
:60 for mobile banking with 6 on-camera principals ("OCPs") shown using the
mobile app. The concept/commercial message is "all of your banking in the palm
of your hand."

Shorter/Longer Versions:
     :30 showing 4 OCPs using the app
     :30 showing 5 OCPs using the app
     :15 that is a direct lift of the :60 ­ 1x session fee due to principal
         performers whose work is in the 3rd shorter/longer version
     :15 showing 2 OCPs in a longer scene, using new material from the same
         production ­ 30% of session fee due to principal performers whose work
         is in the 4th shorter/longer version
     :07 showing 3 OCPs in a shorter scene, using new material from the same
         production ­ 30% of session fee due to principal performers whose work
         is in the 5th shorter/longer version and in each shorter or longer version
         thereafter

Permitted Changes:
     Change tags, dates, factual information, supers, offers and legal;
     Rearrange the scenes;
     Change VO/music; and
     Foreign language voiceover.

Paid Edits:
     :15 shot tightens on the phone in hand (i.e., existing footage) showing the
         investing feature within the app, where the phone screen is adjusted in post-
         production. No changes to the commercial message or concept. Session
         fee to principal performers in the Paid Edit because the Producer is
         changing a product feature.
     :15 shot tightens on the phone in hand (i.e., existing footage) showing
         savings account within the app, where the phone screen is adjusted in post-
         production to display: Check your savings, banking all in the palm of your
         hand. No changes to the commercial message or concept. 75% session fee
         to the principal performers in the 2nd Paid Edit.

Unpermitted Edit:
:15 uses existing footage but changes the commercial message/concept to "Life
moves pretty fast, banking that doesn't slow you down."

                                          19
Explanation: This is a new commercial because it changes the commercial
message/concept from app use to speed.

                                EXAMPLE 5: Automobile

Base Spot:
:60 for SUV. The concept/commercial message is "perfect for family life." The
video shows a family of 4 OCPs in the SUV driving through the woods, mountain
biking together, swimming, and canoeing.

Shorter/Longer Versions:
     :30 showing the family in the car and swimming, and a scene from the shoot
         of them running into the water is added
     :30 that is a direct lift of the :60
     :15 showing the family in the car and mountain biking - 1x session fee due
         to principal performers whose work is in the 3rd shorter/longer version
     :15 showing the family in the car and canoeing ­ 30% of session fee due
         to principal performers whose work is in the 4th shorter/longer version
     :10 showing the family in the car and canoeing that is a shorter version of
         the :15 above ­ 30% of session fee due to principal performers whose
         work is in the 5th shorter/longer version and each shorter or longer
         version thereafter

Permitted Changes:
     Change tags, dates, factual information, supers, offers and legal;
     Rearrange the scenes;
     Change VO/music; and
     Foreign language voiceover.

Paid Edits:
     :30 showing the mother driving instead of the father. Session fee to
         principal performers who shoot the change and 1x session fee to
         principal performers in the 1st Paid Edit.
     :30 showing wardrobe changes from bathing suits to rash guards. Session
         fee to principal performers who shoot the change and 75% session fee
         to principal performers in the 2nd Paid Edit.

Unpermitted Edits:
     :30 is changed to show a female couple in the front seats of the car and
         canoeing with the children.
     :30 is changed to show a male couple in the front seats of the car and
         swimming with the children.

                                          20
Explanation: Both are Unpermitted Edits because new OCPs were introduced
throughout the commercials. Principal performers would receive a separate set of
use and holding fee payments for each new commercial. Extra performers
appearing in either or both of the new commercials would receive one integration
fee if this is the first integration of the footage from the original spot.

                           EXAMPLE 6: Telecommunications

Base Spot:
:60 showing 6 OCPs in various environments video chatting on their iPhones. The
commercial message/concept is "New 5G allows you to video chat anywhere."

Shorter/Longer Versions:
     :30 with fewer OCPs and new footage from the production, but not a direct
         lift
     :30 that is a direct lift of the :60 base spot
     :15 with fewer OCPs than the :60 base spot - 1x session fee due to principal
         performers whose work is in the 3rd shorter/longer version
     :15 that is a direct lift of the :30 ­ 30% of session fee due to principal
         performers whose work is in the 4th shorter/longer version
     :07 with one OCP video chatting ­30% of session fee due to principal
         performers whose work is in the 5th shorter/longer version and in each
         shorter or longer version thereafter

Permitted Changes:
     Change tags, dates, factual information, supers, offers and legal;
     Rearrange the scenes;
     Change VO/music; and
     Foreign language voiceover.

Paid Edits:
     :30 showing OCPs holding an iPhone mini (i.e., a product change). Session
         fee to OCPs who shoot the change and 1x session fee to all OCPs in the
         1st Paid Edit.
     :15 lift of the above :30. 2nd Paid Edit, so 75% of session fee to all OCPs
         in the 2nd Paid Edit.

Unpermitted Edit:
:30 is changed (beyond the nature of a tag) to modify the commercial
message/concept by removing the reference to 5G and instead saying, "Now
offering the new iPhone 27, available today." New footage is also added showing
close-ups of the new iPhone and its features (camera).

                                          21
Explanation: This is an unpermitted edit because the commercial message/concept
changed from 5G to the iPhone 27. Principal performers would receive a separate
set of use and holding fee payments for the new commercial. Extra performers
appearing in the new spot would receive one integration fee if this is the first
integration of the footage from the original spot.

                                EXAMPLE 7: Soft Drinks

Base Spot:
:60 showing OCPs eating different foods that go with cola. They are at a picnic, at
the beach, and by the pool.

Shorter/Longer Versions:
     :30 showing the OCPs at a picnic and at the beach
     :30 showing the OCPs at the beach and by the pool
     :15 showing the OCPs at a picnic - 1x session fee due to principal
         performers whose work is in the 3rd shorter/longer version
     :07 showing the OCPs by the pool ­ 30% of session fee due for to
         principal performers whose work is in the 4th shorter/longer version
     :08 showing the OCPs at the beach ­ 30% of session fee due to principal
         performers whose work is in the 5th shorter/longer version and each
         shorter or longer version thereafter

Permitted Changes:
     Change tags, dates, factual information, supers, offers and legal;
     Rearrange the scenes;
     Change VO/music; and
     Foreign language voiceover.

Paid Edits:
     :15 where the editor changes the park from spring to fall. 1x session fee
         paid to all OCPs in 1st Paid Edit.
     :15 with 2 OCPs holding a cherry cola throughout the spot. 1x session fee
         paid to the 2 OCPs shooting the change and 75% session to all OCPs in
         2nd Paid Edit.

Unpermitted Edit:
:15 that uses the footage of people with cola, but no food is shown. In addition, the
commercial message/concept changes to: "Everyone you see loves this cola."

Explanation: This is an unpermitted edit because you changed the commercial
message/concept from, "great with food" to "cola=love". Principal performers
would receive a separate set of use and holding fee payments for the new

                                          22
commercial. Extra performers appearing in the new spot would receive one
integration fee if this is the first integration of the footage from the original spot.

                                 EXAMPLE 8: Insurance

Base Spot:
:30 by an insurance company showing a re-enacted story of a real accident. The
driver is jamming out to a rock band and slams into a rock while waiting in a drive-
thru line when his foot accidentally hit the gas. The concept/commercial message
is "real rock-and-roll accident."

Shorter/Longer Versions:
     :30 showing different footage of the crash from the same production
     :60 longer version created from the production footage because the
         commercial is so popular
     :15 lift of the new longer version- 1x session fee due to principal
         performers whose work is in the 3rd shorter/longer version
     :15 lift of the original :30 ­ 30% of session fee due for to principal
         performers whose work is in the 4th shorter/longer version
     :08 shorter version for Instagram ­ 30% of session fee due to principal
         performers whose work is in the 5th shorter/longer version
     :30 is made from the production footage, featuring outtakes of the
         commercial ­ 30% of session fee due to principal performers whose
         work is in the 6th shorter/longer version and in each shorter or longer
         version thereafter

Permitted Changes:
     Change tags, dates, factual information, supers, offers and legal;
     Rearrange the scenes;
     Change VO/music; and
     Foreign language voiceover.

Paid Edits:
     :30 showing a different car crashing, but everything else remains the same.
         This introduces a new scene in the body of the commercial, not in the nature
         of a tag. The OCPs who shoot the change (i.e., the OCP and the stunt
         driver) are paid an additional session fee for shooting the change and
         another session fee for the 1st Paid Edit.
     :15 is created with the new car. 75% of a session is paid to all OCPs in
         2nd Paid Edit.

                                          23
             Unpermitted Edit:
             :30 showing a montage of re-enacted accidents, the "top 5" claims of all time.
             Scenes are edited with footage from other commercials. New performers are added.

             Explanation: This is an unpermitted edit because it now features footage from
             multiple commercials with a new concept/commercial message. Principal
             performers would receive a separate set of use and holding fee payments for the
             new commercial. Extra performers appearing in the new commercial would receive
             one integration fee if this is the first integration of the footage from the original
             spot.

16. Amend Section 44.A. ­ Session and Audition Fees as follows:

             A. Session and Audition Fees
                  Payment of the session fee and all related fees, allowances, etc. due for
                  services rendered for each commercial shall be made not later than 15 working
                  days after the day or days of employment and for any audition payments due,
                  not later than 15 working days after the day or days of audition.

17. Amend Section 44.N ­ Translation as follows:

             N. Translation
             A principal performer may not be required at a session or audition (including
             virtual and self-tape) to translate the script into any other language. If a principal
             performer agrees to translate at the request of Producer, Producer shall pay the
             principal performer for such service at an audition or session, as the case may be,
             50% of the minimum session fee, and the Audition Report Form or production time
             report, whichever is applicable, shall so indicate.

18. Amend the first paragraph of Section 46.A. ­ Liquidated Damages For Late Payment as
    follows:

             A. In the event Producer fails to make timely payment, as herein provided, the
             following cumulative liquidated damage payments shall be due and payable to the
             principal performer for each day beginning with the day following the date of
             default: $XX per day up to 25 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays
             which Producer observes) up to a maximum of $XX. Thereafter, the liquidated
             damages shall cease unless either tThe Union or the principal performer shall
             gives written notice to Producer of continued nonpayment. In the event such
             notice is given and full payment, including accrued liquidated damages, is not
             made within 15 working days thereafter, Producer shall be liable for an
             immediate additional liquidated damages payment of $96.25 plus further
             liquidated damage payments at the rate of $XX per day from the date of the
             receipt of notice of nonpayment, which shall continue without limitation as to

                                                         24
             time until the delinquent payment together with all liquidated damages are fully
             paid. Such liquidated damages shall be in addition to any and all other remedies
             which the Union may have against Producer under this Contract.

19. Amend Section 47.A. ­ Contributions to Pension and Health Plans to reflect an increase to
    the total contribution rate of 23.5% (JPC authorizers will receive a 3.55% waiver of the
    increase (for a total contribution of 19.95%)). Of the increase, .05% shall be directed to
    the Digital Transition Impact Mitigation Fund and the remainder shall be directed to the
    SAG-AFTRA Health Plan. Upon request by SAG-AFTRA, the parties agree to jointly
    recommend to the Trustees of the SAG-AFTRA Health Plan that commercial use and
    holding fees be treated as sessional earnings.

20. Amend Section 51.A.3. ­ Required Records and Reports as follows:

             3. In case of grievances, disputes, or alleged disputes hereunder, Producer will
             make available to the Union for inspection, upon demand, all relevant production
             reports, records and principal performers' contracts and the Union will make
             available to Producer for inspection, upon demand, data relevant to the claim other
             than privileged or confidential information. The Union shall provide the JPC a
             copy of any demand for inspection that is served on a JPC authorizer company
             and the JPC shall limit access to such demands to persons with a legitimate
             business need for such access and use best efforts to protect the confidentiality
             of said demands.

21. Amend Section 56.B. ­ Transfer of Rights ­ Assumption Agreement, as modified by the
    2019 and 2022 MOAs, as follows:

             Transferee hereby agrees with Transferor that all commercials covered by this
             agreement (listed below*) are subject to the SAG, AFTRA or SAG-AFTRA
             Commercials Contract under which the commercials were produced, and that the
             parties contemplate a transfer of exclusive rights in the covered commercials from
             the Transferor to the Transferee.

             Transferee hereby agrees, expressly for the benefit of SAG-AFTRA and its
             performers affected thereby, to make all payments including, but not limited to
             holding fees and use fees, as provided in said Contract and all Social Security,
             withholding, unemployment insurance and disability insurance payments and all
             appropriate contributions to the Screen Actors Guild-Producers Pension and Plan,
             SAG-AFTRA Health Plan, IACF, DTIMF, and AMF required under the
             provisions of said Contract and with respect to multiservice contracts, all
             guarantees and other compensation due to performers under such multiservice
             contracts for services covered by the Contract, whether or not the right to produce
             and/or use commercials is exercised, and to comply with all other relevant
             provisions of said Contract, including specifically Section 47.E as it relates to
             disclosure of and disputes over multiservice performer contracts and the arbitration

                                                         25
             provisions and procedures contained therein. Upon the Union's or the Plans'
             written request, Transferee agrees to timely provide to the Union and the Plans
             unredacted copies of all contracts relating to services provided under such
             performer contracts. It is expressly understood and agreed that the rights of
             Transferee to utilize such commercials shall be subject to and conditioned upon the
             prompt payment to the performers involved of all compensation as provided in said
             Contract and the Union, on behalf of the performers involved, shall be entitled to
             injunctive relief in the event such payments are not made.

             Notwithstanding any other provision of this Transfer of Rights Assumption
             Agreement, Transferee may not use any Digital Replica referenced herein for
             any purpose in any field or medium unless Transferee complies with the
             provisions set forth in Section XX and XX.1 of the Commercials
             Contract. When Transferee provides the reasonably specific description
             required under Section XX, Transferee must disclose whether the program,
             commercial or other content that the Digital Replica will be used for is to be
             produced under a SAG-AFTRA collective bargaining agreement. Transferee
             hereby acknowledges that SAG-AFTRA membership rules prohibit members
             from consenting to the use of their Digital Replica to generate a performance
             for a program, commercial or other content in any field or medium covered
             by a SAG-AFTRA collective bargaining agreement unless that program,
             commercial or other content is produced under the applicable SAG-AFTRA
             agreement.

             In the event of a subsequent transfer, assignment, sale or other disposition by
             Transferee of any commercials covered by this agreement, Transferee agrees to
             give written notice, by mail, to the Union of each such subsequent transfer, etc.
             within 30 days after the consummation thereof, and such notice shall specify the
             name and address of the transferee, assignee or purchaser. Transferee shall also
             deliver to the Union a copy of the agreement with the transferee, assignee or
             purchaser, which agreement shall be in substantially the same form as this
             agreement.

22. Amend Section 58.H. ­ Arbitration, as modified by the 2019 and 2022 MOAs, as follows:

             H. It is the policy of the Union not to process unduly late claims. All claims shall
             be in writing (email shall suffice) and shall set forth with specificity the
             Contract provision(s) that the Union alleges to have been violated. The Union
             shall provide to the JPC a copy of any claim letter that is served on a JPC
             authorizer company and the JPC shall limit access to such claim letters to
             persons with a legitimate business need for such access and shall use best
             efforts to ensure the confidentiality of said letters and the information
             contained therein. Claims regarding audition, travel or production-related session
             claims (e.g., overtime, wet pay, smoke pay, meal periods, etc.) shall be submitted
             to Producer no later than 6 months from the date of such audition, travel or session,
             or, if the claim is related to payment, 6 months from the date the payment is made.

                                                         26
             It shall be the understanding of the parties that the term "production-related session
             claims" is meant to identify those session-related claims where the contract
             violation can be ascertained at the time of session or at the time that the session
             payment is received. Claims regarding unpaid use shall be submitted to Producer
             no later than 6 months from the expiration of the applicable Maximum Period of
             Use or the date that performer is released from exclusivity, whichever is sooner.
             There shall be a 4-year statute of limitations for all other claims. The statute of
             limitations shall begin to run on the date that the performer knew or should have
             known that a claim existed. If a claim is withdrawn, the Union shall notify
             Producer in writing (email shall suffice) in a timely manner.

23. Delete Section 65 ­ Alternative Method of Compensation and replace with new Section
    65 ­ Joint Monitoring Initiative:

             Joint Monitoring Initiative
             SAG-AFTRA and JPC will recommend that the IACF fund a joint monitoring
             initiative. The initiative will be overseen both by the JPC and the Union, and
             will retain one or more third-party vendors to develop an automated
             monitoring service. The JPC will use its good offices to facilitate Producer
             cooperation with this initiative including providing materials and data
             necessary for the development of the automated monitoring service.

24. Amend Section 69 ­ Title as follows:

             This Contract shall be known as the 2022 2025 SAG-AFTRA COMMERCIALS
             CONTRACT.

25. Amend Schedule A.I.C. ­ Engagement to add the following new Subsections:

             4. Upon booking, Producer shall provide, in writing, all performers with an
             opportunity to request, in writing, accommodations for a disability consistent
             with legal and regulatory requirements. The JPC will cooperate with the
             Union in efforts to address any chronic violations of this requirement.

             5. Producer shall use commercially reasonable efforts to provide all
             performers their employment contract(s), including any riders or addenda, for
             review not less than 24 hours in advance of their call time.

             6. Producers shall provide all performers with information on how and to
             whom to report issues, or ask questions, relating to alleged discrimination,
             alleged harassment and the safety of minors. Such information shall be in
             visible signage in visible areas frequented by performers, crew and other
             visitors to set.

26. Amend Schedule A.I.E. ­ Rest Period to add new Subsection 5 as follows:

                                                         27
             5. Producer shall provide reasonable break times for performers to express
             breast milk for their nursing child. Upon request, a place to pump must be
             provided, other than a bathroom, that is shielded from view and free from
             intrusion.

27. Add to Schedule A.I.F.3 ­ Makeup, Hairdress, Wardrobe and Wardrobe Allowance the
    following:

             3. Producer shall either provide any special hairdress required or, in the event
             Producer required a principal performer to furnish such special hairdress
             necessitating an expenditure, Producer shall provide an advance covering the
             expenditure at facilities designated by Producer. When a performer is required
             to and does furnish their own hair-piece, or make up their own hair in a period
             style, the performer shall be paid additional compensation in the amount of
             $XX.

28. Amend Schedule A.I.F.4. ­ Makeup, Hairdress, Wardrobe and Wardrobe Allowance, as
    amended by the 2022 MOA, as follows:

             4. Producer will utilize only qualified hair stylists and makeup artists for cutting
             and styling a performer's hair and applying their makeup. Producer must provide
             qualified hair stylists and makeup artists and the appropriate products so that the
             needs of performers may be met. With respect to diverse hair and makeup,
             "qualified" means hair stylists with proven ability and experience styling a variety
             of textures and styles, (e.g. tight curls, curly, wavy, straight, tapered, braids, locks,
             twists, fades, locked hairstyles, etc.) and makeup artists who are experienced in
             working with diverse skin pigments and features. Producer shall use
             commercially reasonable efforts to provide the contact information for the
             qualified hair stylist and/or make-up artist at the time of fitting or 24-hours
             prior to the first work day, whichever is earlier, in order to consult regarding
             any hair and/or makeup needs prior to commencing work.

29. Amend Schedule A.I.F. ­ Makeup, Hairdress, Wardrobe and Wardrobe Allowance to add
    new Subsection 9 as follows:

             9. A cover-up, such as a bathrobe, shall be provided to a performer who is
             nude (including pasties and genital socks) or partially nude (e.g., shirtless or
             pantless, only wearing a bathing suit or underwear, sheer or transparent
             clothing) when the performer is on set and not engaged in rehearsing or
             shooting the scene, or, if practicable, when there is a pause in rehearsing or
             shooting.

                                                         28
30. Amend Schedule A.I.I.1. ­ Auditions to add a new Subsection (a) and renumber the
    remaining subsections as follows:

(a) When a Producer engages a casting company, Producer shall use
commercially reasonable efforts to require such companies to comply with
applicable laws regarding charging performers fees for accessing job listings
or submitting for a role.

In the event a performer is asked to pay a fee to access casting materials or to
upload a self-tape or otherwise make a submission including a resume and
headshot for the role being cast, the performer or the Union should contact the
casting director before paying the fee to obtain information on how to access
the casting materials or submit for the role free of charge. Contact
information for the casting director shall be included in the casting notice,
breakdown or other information relating to the casting call.

In considering candidates for a role, Producer shall use commercially
reasonable efforts to ensure that the casting director does not give preferential
treatment to any performer on the basis of whether the performer has paid a
subscription fee to a casting service to access casting materials or paid a fee to
a casting service to submit for a role. Sorting submissions by alphabetical
order or randomly shall satisfy the foregoing obligation to refrain from giving
preferential treatment.

31. Amend Schedule A.I.X.10 ­ Travel Time as follows:

10. Meals must be provided on all locations. All principal performers shall be
entitled to a basic $80.00 $92.00 per diem meal allowance on locations which shall
be not less than the following:

Breakfast: $16

Lunch:   $27

Dinner:  $43

Producer shall have the right to deduct from the per diem meal allowance the
appropriate amount for each meal furnished. Per diem shall be paid on the first
work day, including travel, and, for foreign production locations, performer
shall have the choice of either cash or a digital payment non-cash alternative
(other than checks), without any deduction for fees or transaction costs.

32. Amend Schedule A.I.Z. ­ Dressing Rooms to add new Subsection 7 as follows:

7. If outdoors, Producer shall be required to provide a tent over provided
chairs and table as well as provide a ground covering.

                29
33. Amend Schedule A.I.AA ­ Employment of Minors as follows:

             1. Guidelines

                   The parties hereto, recognizing the special situation that arises when minor
                   children are employed, have formulated the following guidelines to ensure
                   that:

                  (a) Stet

                  (b) Stet

                  (c) The Minor's education will not be neglected or hampered by their
                      participation in such performance.

                  (d) A Producer may choose to require a background check as a condition
                      of employment for any person working in close proximity to one or
                      more minor(s), other than a minor who is that person's child/ward,
                      employed under the Agreement. For purposes of this subparagraph
                      (d), a background check refers to confirmation of the individual's
                      identity, the individual's address history over a seven (7) year period,
                      reportable criminal records (excluding arrests not leading to conviction
                      unless the alleged violation involves a minor), whether the individual
                      appears on any state or federal government sex-offender registry and
                      when applicable, professional licenses and/or driving records from the
                      appropriate issuing government agency. The background check will be
                      conducted consistent with the requirements of state and federal law.
                      The results of the background check shall only be provided to those
                      with a need to know. Notwithstanding the prior sentence, in the event
                      a grievance is filed by the Union relating to the termination or
                      suspension of, or refusal to hire, a performer because of a background
                      check, the results of the background check shall be made available to
                      the Union, provided that the individual subject to the background
                      check consents."

                      It is the intent that the best interest of the minor be the primary consideration
                      of the parent and the adults in charge of commercial production, with due
                      regard to the age of the minor. As used in this Section AA, the term "parent"
                      shall be deemed to include "guardian."

              2. Definition of a Minor

                      The term "minor" as used herein means any principal performer defined as
                      a minor under the employment laws of the Sstate governing their
                      employment and in any event shall include any principal performer 17 15
                      years of age or younger.

                                                         30
3. Stet

4. Stet

5. Supervision

        (a) Stet

        (b) Stet

        (c) Stet

        (d) Stet

        (e) On days when the minor's regular school is in session, Producer
             must require the minor to report to the teacher immediately upon
             arrival at the place of employment. When school is in session, the
             teacher has primary responsibility for the education and
             supervision of the minor. Presence of the teacher does not relieve
             parents, however, of the responsibility of caring for their own
             children.

        (f) When a parent is working at the minor's place of employment but
             not at the scene of employment, either the other parent or a
             guardian must be present with the minor.

        (g) (formerly e) Stet

        (h) (formerly f) Stet

        (i) (formerly g) Stet

        (j) (formerly h) Stet

6-11. Stet

12. Education

       (a) When Producer employs performers minors of school age who are
            currently enrolled in an elementary or secondary school for a booking
            of 3 or more days on which school is otherwise in session for the minor,
            Producer shall provide 3 hours of education on each such school day
            as part of the regular working day. Producer agrees to employ a
            teacher, from the first day of such employment, whenever the minor
            is engaged on any day during which the primary or secondary

                                         31
     school regularly attended by the minor is in session. On any day a
     minor is employed but is not otherwise entitled to have a teacher,
     the minor shall nevertheless be taught if the primary or secondary
     school such minor regularly attends is in session and Producer has
     employed a teacher to instruct another performer engaged on the
     same production.

(b)Producer shall provide a teacher/tutor who has current teaching
     credentials in either the state of employment or the child's home state,
     and who is qualified to teach the subjects which comprise the child's
     curriculum. A copy of the teacher's/tutor's/welfare worker's current
     credentials and identification shall be provided to the parent/guardian
     by the Producer for inspection no later than twenty-four (24) hours prior
     to the minor performer's initial call. Whenever possible, Producer
     shall provide internet access for minor performers for schoolwork.
     Subject to the limitations and requirements of the state in which
     production is taking place, a teacher/tutor/welfare worker (or other
     individual assigned to perform the same duties as a welfare worker,
     such as a child labor coordinator) who is engaged by the Producer
     to supervise or teach minors employed under this Agreement shall
     be subject to a background check (as described in 1.(d) above) as a
     condition of employment. (With respect to a Teacher-Welfare
     Worker who is on the Availability List or Dual Credential
     Substitute List established under the IATSE Local 884 Agreement,
     a Producer may rely on the background check administered by
     CSATF for placement on those Lists.)

(c) Producer shall provide a ratio of not more than ten (10) minors per
     teacher, except that up to twenty (20) minors may be taught per
     teacher if the minors are in not more than two (2) grade levels.

(d)A teacher may not serve more than one (1) production in any one (1)
     day, except in an emergency.

(e) If the minor's regular instruction is primarily in a language other
     than English, teaching in that language will be provided whenever
     feasible.

(f) On any day that the minor is not required to report to the set, the
     minor may attend their regular school, but Producer shall not count
     more than three (3) hours of the hours attended per day at the
     minor's regular school as school time for purposes of this
     Agreement. If the minor's parent or guardian does not choose to
     have the minor attend regular school on such day, Producer may
     elect to either teach the minor on the set or in the minor's home or
     in the home of the teacher employed by Producer, but only if there

                                  32
              are no other minors present in the home who are not also being
              taught by the teacher.

        (g) Producer agrees to provide a school facility, such as a schoolhouse,
              classroom, trailer schoolhouse or other schooling area, which
              closely approximates the basic requirements for classrooms,
              especially with respect to adequate lighting, heating, desks and
              chairs. Stationary buses or cars are not adequate school facilities
              unless used exclusively for the minors during instruction. A moving
              car or bus shall never be used as a school facility; minors must not
              be taught while being transported to or from local locations.

        (h)Producer shall provide schooling equipment and supplies. However,
              the minor's parent or guardian must, if permitted by the minor's
              regular school, secure school assignments and the minor's
              schoolbooks for use at the place of employment.

        (i) Whenever possible Producer shall provide internet access for minor
              performers for schoolwork.

        (j) No one shall be allowed in an area being utilized by Producer as a
              school facility except the teacher, those minors being taught, and
              production-related personnel with a need to enter the area.

        (k)The teacher shall determine the required number of hours to be
              devoted to instruction during a day, but the minor must be taught
              an average of at least three (3) hours per day, no period of less than
              twenty (20) minutes duration being acceptable as school time. The
              maximum number of hours that may be set aside for the minor's
              instruction in any one (1) day shall be as follows: for kindergarten,
              four (4) hours; for grades one (1) through six (6), five (5) hours; and
              for grades seven (7) through twelve (12), six (6) hours. (12) Producer
              shall require the teacher to prepare a written report for each minor
              covering attendance, grades, etc. These reports shall be given to the
              minor's parents or guardian to deliver to the minor's regular school
              at the end of each assignment or at such intervals as required by
              such school.

              Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, performers who are
              legally emancipated and are exempt from the definition of 'minors'
              for the purpose of this section shall nevertheless be subject to the
              provisions of Section AA. regarding education if the performer has
              not satisfied the compulsory education laws of the state governing
              the performer's employment.

13. Stet

                                           33
34. Amend Schedule A.I.FF.2.(d) to add a new Subsection (xi) as follows:

(xi) When a dancer is required to lip-synch while dancing, such performer
shall receive compensation of an additional 25% of their applicable session fee
for each such commercial.

35. Amend paragraph 1 of Schedule A.I.HH ­ Facilities as follows:

In accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, at no less than the law
requires as currently written, all facilities under the control or used on behalf of
Producer in connection with the casting or production of commercials including,
but not limited to, dressing rooms, holding areas, studios, location sets, and
lodging, shall provide reasonable accommodations for performers with disabilities.
Such facilities, and access thereto, as well as transportation provided by Producer
shall be suitable for the needs and requirements of any principal performer whether
by reason of age or disability.

36. Change the title of Schedule A.I.KK to Deaf and Hard of Hearing and Visually Impaired
    Blind or Low Vision Principal Performers and amend Subsection 2 as follows:

2. With regard to performers who are blind or visually impaired low vision,
Producer and such performers shall make mutually acceptable provisions to make
the script available to the performer in advance of auditions.

37. Amend Schedule A to add a new Section LL ­ Intimacy Coordinator as follows:

             LL. Intimacy Coordinator

             Producer will use commercially reasonable efforts to engage an intimacy
             coordinator for scenes involving nudity (including pasties and genital socks),
             simulated sex acts, passionate kissing or partial nudity or partially nude (e.g.,
             shirtless or pantless, only wearing a bathing suit or underwear, sheer or
             transparent clothing). Producer will also consider in good faith any request
             by a performer or a performer's representative to engage an intimacy
             coordinator for other scenes. Producer shall not retaliate against a performer
             for requesting an intimacy coordinator.

38. Amend Schedule B.II.C. ­ Professional Recognition ­ Preference of Employment ­
    Principal Performers to add Austin, Texas as a preference zone as follows:

*Austin, Texas  100 miles from the center of the city

                34
39. Amend Schedule D.II.1.E. ­ Other Extra Zones to add Austin, Texas as an extra zone as
    follows:

*Austin, Texas  100 miles from the center of the city

40. Amend paragraph 1 of Schedule D.II.2.B. ­ Crowd Work as follows:

Crowd work may be performed by persons who do not possess the required skill,
training and experience of registered extra performers, under the conditions and
restrictions hereinafter provided. Wherever Producer employs 45 or more
registered extra performers for work in a particular commercial on a particular day,
Producer may employ any number of nonregistered persons to perform crowd
work. For purposes of this subsection, extra performers who work as stand-ins or
photographic doubles, and performances generated by digital replicas, shall not
be counted in determining whether 45 registered extra performers have been
employed on a particular day.

41. Amend Schedule D.III.3. ­ Hiring of Extra Performers to add a new Subsection (E) and
    renumber the remaining subsections as follows:

When a Producer engages a casting company, Producer shall use
commercially reasonable efforts to require such companies to comply with
applicable laws regarding charging extra performers fees for accessing job
listings or submitting for a role.

In the event an extra performer is asked to pay a fee to access casting materials
or to upload a self-tape or otherwise make a submission including a resume
and headshot for the role being cast, the extra performer or the Union should
contact the casting director before paying the fee to obtain information on how
to access the casting materials or submit for the role free of charge. Contact
information for the casting director shall be included in the casting notice,
breakdown or other information relating to the casting call.

In considering candidates for a role, Producer shall use commercially
reasonable efforts to ensure that the casting director does not give preferential
treatment to any extra performer on the basis of whether the extra performer
has paid a subscription fee to a casting service to access casting materials or
paid a fee to a casting service to submit for a role. Sorting submissions by
alphabetical order or randomly shall satisfy the foregoing obligation to refrain
from giving preferential treatment.

42. Amend Schedule D.III.3.F. ­ Calls to add new Subsections as follows:

                35
             (d) Upon booking, Producer shall provide, in writing, all extra performers an
             opportunity to request, in writing, accommodations for a disability consistent
             with legal and regulatory requirements. The JPC will cooperate with the
             Union in efforts to address any chronic violations of this requirement.

             (e) Producer shall use commercially reasonable efforts to provide all extra
             performers their employment contract(s), including any riders or addenda, for
             review not less than 24 hours in advance of their call time.

             (f) A stand-in extra performer may not be requested to work nude (including
             pasties and genital socks) or partially nude (e.g. shirtless or pantless, wearing
             a bathing suit, wearing only lingerie or undergarments, sheer or transparent
             clothing).

43. Amend Schedule D.III.3. ­ Hiring of Extra Performers to add new Subsection (K) as
    follows:

             (K) Producer shall provide extra performers with information on how and to
             whom to report issues, or ask questions, relating to alleged discrimination,
             alleged harassment and the protection of minors. In addition, Producer shall
             include instructions for reporting violations of the policy (e.g., the Producer's
             reporting hotline) on call sheets and background vouchers, as well as on visible
             signage posted in production areas frequented by employees, when
             practicable."

44. Amend Schedule D.III.4. ­ Additional Services as follows:

             No service of the extra performer is contracted for except as specified in this
             Schedule D. This Section is not intended to prevent an extra performer from
             contracting for services of a kind not covered by this Schedule D (for example,
             translation, interpreting, and consulting (e.g., with respect to disabilities in
             connection with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990)) by individual
             contract at such rates of pay and under such conditions as Producer and the extra
             performer shall agree, subject only to the fact that it shall not be in conflict with
             this collective bargaining agreements of the Union.

45. Delete Schedule D.III.5. ­ Types of Use to remove 13-week rate and make all conforming
    changes.

46. Amend Schedule D.III.6.A. ­ Minimum Wage Rate Requirements for Extra Performers to
    delete columns "Initial 13-week use" and "Extended beyond 13 weeks."

47. Amend Schedule D.III.8.C. ­ Rest Period as follows:

                                                         36
             An extra performer will have at least 5 minutes rest during each hour of actual
             rehearsal or shooting, but if the scene being rehearsed or shot be of a continuing
             nature, such rest period may be accumulated to be not less than 10 minutes during
             each 2 hours of such continuous rehearsal or shooting. Producer shall provide
             reasonable break times for extra performers to express breast milk for their
             nursing child. Upon request, a place to pump must be provided, other than a
             bathroom, that is shielded from view and free from intrusion.

48. Amend Schedule D.IV.10 ­ Payment Requirements to add new Subsection E as follows:

             E. All allowances, adjustments, and fees shall be increased by the same
             percentage as any agreed-upon wage increase applicable to Section 20,
             Minimum Compensation, in this and future negotiations.

                      Note:
                               Schedule D.III.6.C. ­ Minimum Wage - Standard Opening and
                               Closing
                               Schedule D.IV.17. E. ­ Wardrobe
                               Schedule D.IV.17.G (5) ­ Interviews
                               Schedule D.IV.17.I ­ Allowances
                               Schedule D.IV.17.J ­ Wet, Snow, Smoke and Dust Work
                               (Natural or Artificial)
                               Schedule D.IV.17.K ­ Body Make-Up; Skull Cap; Hair Goods
                               and Haircut

49. Amend the first paragraph of Section D.IV.11 ­ Liquidated Damages For Late Payment as
    follows:

             A. In the event Producer fails to make timely payment, as herein provided, the
             following cumulative liquidated damage payments shall be due and payable to the
             performer for each day beginning with the day following the date of default: $XX
             per day up to 25 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays which Producer
             observes) up to a maximum of $XX. Thereafter, the liquidated damages shall
             cease unless either tThe Union or the performer shall gives written notice to
             Producer of continued nonpayment. In the event such notice is given and full
             payment, including accrued liquidated damages, is not made within 15
             working days thereafter, Producer shall be liable for an immediate additional
             liquidated damages payment of $96.25 plus further liquidated damage payments
             at the rate of $XX per day from the date of the receipt of notice of nonpayment,
             which shall continue without limitation as to time until the delinquent payment
             together with all liquidated damages are fully paid. Such liquidated damages shall
             be in addition to any and all other remedies which the Union may have against
             Producer under this Schedule D.

                                                         37
50. Amend Schedule D.IV.17.E. ­ Wardrobe and Wardrobe Maintenance Allowance as
    follows:

1. An extra performer (including a hand model) who reports in and/or brings
specified wardrobe as requested by the Producer, shall be entitled to a wardrobe
maintenance allowance as follows:

Specified Wardrobe                                       $XX per costume

Evening Wardrobe/Period (pre-1950) Wardrobe (40 or more years)

$XX per costume

6. A cover-up, such as a bathrobe, shall be provided to an extra performer who
is nude (including pasties and genital socks) or partially nude (e.g., shirtless or
pantless, only wearing a bathing suit or underwear, sheer or transparent
clothing) when the extra performer is on set and not engaged in rehearsing or
shooting the scene, or, if practicable, when there is a pause in rehearsing or
shooting.

51. Amend Schedule D.IV.17.G.6. ­ Interviews as follows

6. Extra performers who are required to and do report for an interview in evening
wardrobe or period (pre-1950) wardrobe period wardrobe (40 or more years)
shall be paid an additional $XX and above the interview allowance.

52. Amend Schedule D.IV.17.K.3 ­ Body Make-Up; Skull Cap; Hair Goods, as modified by
    the 2022 MOA, as follows:

             When an extra performer's hair (including sideburns) must be cut, advance notice
             must be given at the time of the booking. In no event may the extra performer's
             hair be cut earlier than 48 hours before the call. Producer will utilize only qualified
             hairdressers and stylists for cutting and styling an extra performer's hair. Producer
             will utilize only qualified hair stylists and makeup artists for cutting and styling a
             performer's hair and applying their makeup. Producer must provide qualified hair
             stylists and makeup artists and the appropriate products so that the needs of
             performers may be met. With respect to diverse hair and makeup, "qualified"
             means hair stylists with proven ability and experience styling a variety of textures
             and styles, (e.g. tight curls, curly, wavy, straight, tapered, braids, locks, twists,
             fades, locked hairstyles, etc.) and makeup artists who are experienced in working
             with diverse skin pigments and features. Producer shall use commercially
             reasonable efforts to provide the contact information for the qualified hair
             stylist and/or make-up artist at the time of fitting or 24-hours prior to the first
             work day, whichever is earlier, in order to consult regarding any hair and/or
             makeup needs prior to commencing work.

                                                         38
53. Amend Schedule D.IV.17.Q. ­ Dressing Rooms, Sanitary Provisions, Telephone Access
    to add new Subsection 10 as follows:

             10. If outdoors, Producer shall be required to provide a tent over provided
             chairs and table as well as provide a ground covering.

54. Amend Schedule D.IV.17.R. ­ Employment of Minors as follows:

             1. Guidelines

                  The parties hereto, recognizing the special situation that arises when minor
                  children are employed, have formulated the following guidelines to ensure that:

                  (a) Stet

                  (b) Stet

                  (c) The Minor's education will not be neglected or hampered by their
                      participation in such performance.

                  (d) A Producer may choose to require a background check as a condition
                      of employment for any person working in close proximity to one or
                      more minor(s), other than a minor who is that person's child/ward,
                      employed under the Agreement. For purposes of this subparagraph
                      (d), a background check refers to confirmation of the individual's
                      identity, the individual's address history over a seven (7) year period,
                      reportable criminal records (excluding arrests not leading to conviction
                      unless the alleged violation involves a minor), whether the individual
                      appears on any state or federal government sex-offender registry and
                      when applicable, professional licenses and/or driving records from the
                      appropriate issuing government agency. The background check will be
                      conducted consistent with the requirements of state and federal law.
                      The results of the background check shall only be provided to those
                      with a need to know. Notwithstanding the prior sentence, in the event
                      a grievance is filed by the Union relating to the termination or
                      suspension of, or refusal to hire, an extra performer because of a
                      background check, the results of the background check shall be made
                      available to the Union, provided that the individual subject to the
                      background check consents."

                      It is the intent that the best interest of the minor be the primary consideration
                      of the parent and the adults in charge of commercial production, with due
                      regard to the age of the minor. As used in this Section R, the term "parent"
                      shall be deemed to include "guardian."

                                                         39
    2. Definition of a Minor

   The term "minor" as used herein means any extra performer defined as a minor
   under the employment laws of the Sstate governing their employment and in any
   event shall include any extra performer 17 15 years of age or younger.

    3. Stet

    4. Stet

    5. Supervision

        (a) Stet

        (b) Stet

        (c) Stet

        (d) Stet

        (e) On days when the minor's regular school is in session, Producer must
            require the minor to report to the teacher immediately upon arrival at
            the place of employment. When school is in session, the teacher has
            primary responsibility for the education and supervision of the minor.
            Presence of the teacher does not relieve parents, however, of the
            responsibility of caring for their own children.

        (f) When a parent is working at the minor's place of employment but not
            at the scene of employment, either the other parent or a guardian must
            be present with the minor.

     (g) (formerly e) Stet

     (h) (formerly f) Stet

     (i) (formerly g) Stet

     (j) (formerly h) Stet

6-11. Stet

12. Education

        (a) When Producer employs extra performers of school age who are
            currently enrolled in an elementary or secondary school for a booking
            of 3 or more days on which school is otherwise in session. Producer

                                              40
      agrees to employ a teacher, from the first day of such employment,
      whenever the minor is engaged on any day during which the primary
      or secondary school regularly attended by the minor is in session. On
      any day a minor is employed but is not otherwise entitled to have a
      teacher, the minor shall nevertheless be taught if the primary or
      secondary school such minor regularly attends is in session and
      Producer has employed a teacher to instruct another extra performer
      engaged on the same production.

(b) Producer shall provide a teacher/tutor who has current teaching
     credentials in either the state of employment or the child's home state,
     and who is qualified to teach the subjects which comprise the child's
     curriculum. A copy of the teacher's/tutor's/welfare worker's current
     credentials and identification shall be provided to the parent/guardian
     by the Producer for inspection no later than twenty-four (24) hours
     prior to the minor extra performer's initial call. Subject to the
     limitations and requirements of the state in which production is taking
     place, a teacher/tutor/welfare worker (or other individual assigned to
     perform the same duties as a welfare worker, such as a child labor
     coordinator) who is engaged by the Producer to supervise or teach
     minors employed under this Agreement shall be subject to a
     background check (as described in 1.(d) above) as a condition of
     employment. (With respect to a Teacher-Welfare Worker who is on the
     Availability List or Dual Credential Substitute List established under
     the IATSE Local 884 Agreement, a Producer may rely on the
     background check administered by CSATF for placement on those
     Lists.)

(c) Producer shall provide a ratio of not more than ten (10) minors per
     teacher, except that up to twenty (20) minors may be taught per teacher
     if the minors are in not more than two (2) grade levels.

(d) A teacher may not serve more than one (1) production in any one (1) day,
     except in an emergency.

(e) If the minor's regular instruction is primarily in a language other than
     English, teaching in that language will be provided whenever feasible.

(f) On any day that the minor is not required to report to the set, the minor
     may attend their regular school, but Producer shall not count more than
     three (3) hours of the hours attended per day at the minor's regular
     school as school time for purposes of this Agreement. If the minor's
     parent or guardian does not choose to have the minor attend regular
     school on such day, Producer may elect to either teach the minor on the
     set or in the minor's home or in the home of the teacher employed by

                                        41
        Producer, but only if there are no other minors present in the home who
        are not also being taught by the teacher.

   (g) Producer agrees to provide a school facility, such as a schoolhouse,
        classroom, trailer schoolhouse or other schooling area, which closely
        approximates the basic requirements for classrooms, especially with
        respect to adequate lighting, heating, desks and chairs. Stationary buses
        or cars are not adequate school facilities unless used exclusively for the
        minors during instruction. A moving car or bus shall never be used as a
        school facility; minors must not be taught while being transported to or
        from local locations.

   (h) Producer shall provide schooling equipment and supplies. However, the
        minor's parent or guardian must, if permitted by the minor's regular
        school, secure school assignments and the minor's schoolbooks for use
        at the place of employment.

   (i) Whenever possible Producer shall provide internet access for minor extra
        performers for schoolwork.

   (j) No one shall be allowed in an area being utilized by Producer as a school
        facility except the teacher, those minors being taught, and production-
        related personnel with a need to enter the area.

   (k) The teacher shall determine the required number of hours to be devoted
        to instruction during a day, but the minor must be taught an average of
        at least three (3) hours per day, no period of less than twenty (20)
        minutes duration being acceptable as school time. The maximum
        number of hours that may be set aside for the minor's instruction in any
        one (1) day shall be as follows: for kindergarten, four (4) hours; for
        grades one (1) through six (6), five (5) hours; and for grades seven (7)
        through twelve (12), six (6) hours. (12) Producer shall require the
        teacher to prepare a written report for each minor covering attendance,
        grades, etc. These reports shall be given to the minor's parents or
        guardian to deliver to the minor's regular school at the end of each
        assignment or at such intervals as required by such school.

         Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, extra performers who
         are legally emancipated and are exempt from the definition of 'minors'
         for the purpose of this section shall nevertheless be subject to the
         provisions of Section R. regarding education if the extra performer has
         not satisfied the compulsory education laws of the state governing the
         extra performer's employment.

13 (formerly section 12). Stet

                                           42
55. Add a new Section 20 to Schedule D.IV. titled Intimacy Coordinator as follows:

             20. Intimacy Coordinator

             Producer will use commercially reasonable efforts to engage an intimacy
             coordinator for scenes involving nudity (including pasties and genital socks),
             simulated sex acts, passionate kissing or partial nudity or partially nude (e.g.,
             shirtless or pantless, only wearing a bathing suit or underwear, sheer or
             transparent clothing). Producer will also consider in good faith any request
             by an extra performer or an extra performer's representative to engage an
             intimacy coordinator for other scenes. Producer shall not retaliate against a
             performer for requesting an intimacy coordinator.

56. Amend Exhibit I ­ Commercial Contract Allocation Guidelines to add a new second
    paragraph as follows:

             "Gross compensation," as defined in Section 47.C., does not include publicist
             fees, hair stylist fees, makeup artist fees, and/or wardrobe stylist fees or fees
             paid by an employer directly to an agent where those amounts are specifically
             recited in the multi-service agreement. The foregoing should not be
             interpreted as reflecting any agreement or acquiescence by the Union to the
             practice of agents receiving payment from both performers and employers on
             the same engagement ("double dipping") or other unlawful practices relating
             to the payment of commission by performers to their agents.

57. Amend Exhibit I ­ Commercial Contract Allocation Guidelines to add new Subsection G
    and renumber subsequent Subsections.

             G. In lieu of any other allocations provided herein, 40% allocation for
             commercials used exclusively in Traditional Digital use categories.

58. Amend Appendix A.1. of the 2022 MOA to clarify that under the Linear and Linear+
    Digital side of the Contract, holding fees shall be paid and may not be credited against use
    for Traditional Digital and/or Traditional Digital with Paid YouTube unless and until linear
    and/or streaming use is purchased.

59. Amend Appendix A.1.(a)(ii)(B) ­ Use of the 2022 MOA as follows:

             (B) Each 4-week, 13-week, or 1-year cycle of use shall be paid as set forth below
             for each use type. All cycles may be used non-consecutively during the MPU,
             provided and for so long as Producer is paying holding fees to all principal
             performers in the commercial. Provided the commercial is in an active use cycle,
             Producer may upgrade any lower use cycle, excluding Diginet cycles, to a
             longer use cycle by paying the difference between the lower use payment and

                                                         43
             the higher use cycle. The check for the payment of the difference required to
             upgrade to the longer cycle shall be dated and mailed before the last day of the
             shorter cycle.

60. Amend Appendix A.1.(a)(ii)(B)(1) ­ Traditional Digital of the 2022 MOA to codify the
    2024 Low Budget Digital Waiver and extend the sunset through March 31, 2028.

61. Amend Appendix A.1.(a)(ii)(B)(1) and Appendix A.1.(b)(iv)(1) ­ Traditional Digital to
    create two categories of Traditional Digital use: 1) Traditional Digital with Paid YouTube,
    and 2) Traditional Digital (which shall include use on social media, brand websites, retailer
    websites, third-party websites, and all other types of use on YouTube, etc.). The rates for
    Traditional Digital with Paid YouTube will be 12% higher than Traditional Digital for the
    first two years of the Contract and 12.35% for the third year.

62. Amend Appendix A.1(a)(ii)(B)(3) ­ Streaming Platforms to increase all Streaming
    Platform rates to the rates set forth below (not subject to the wage increase):

             (a) 4 week ­ $1,1001,300

             (b) 13 week ­ $2,5503,000

             (c) 1 year ­ $7,50010,000

63. Amend Appendix A.1.(a)(ii)(B)(5) ­ National Cable of the 2022 MOA to create a new
    cable use category titled "Single Cable Network."

    Single Cable Network excluding ESPN, TNT, TBS, USA, Fox News, Bravo, Food
    Network, HGTV, Hallmark Channel, TLC, NFL Network, Fox Sports 1, CNN, Discovery,
    and E! (not subject to the wage increase):

             (a) 4-week ­ $801.12
             (b) 13-week ­ $2,189.74
             (c) 1-year ­ $7,210.12

64. Codify the 2022 National Cable Waiver by adding to the Local Cable provisions under the
    Contract and update the aggregate subscriber count and rates as follows (not subject to the
    wage increase):

             Subscriber Counts 1,000,001 - 2,000,000

             (a) 4 week ­ $600
             (b) 13 week ­ $1,600
             (c) 1 year ­ $6,000

             Subscriber Counts 2,000,001 - 3,000,000

                                                         44
                  (a) 4 week ­ $900
                  (b) 13 week ­ $2,400
                  (c) 1 year ­ $9,000

    65. Amend Appendix A.1.(a)(ii)(B)(7) ­ Wild Spot of the 2022 MOA to add Chicago as a
         major market as follows:

                  (7) Wild Spot (including local cable simulcast and non-streaming VOD (i.e., VOD
                      accessed via your TV provider)):
                               (a) 4 week (all markets) ­ $800
                               (b) 13 week (all markets) ­ $2,000
                               (c) 13-week (excluding NY, CHI, and LA) ­ $1,100
                               (d) 1 year (all markets) ­ $7,200
                               (e) 1 year (excluding NY, CHI, and LA)­ $4,000

    66. Amend Appendix C., Schedule A.I.I.1.w. ­ Auditions of the 2022 MOA to add new
         Subsection (iv) as follows:

                  (iv) For a self-tape, Producer or casting director may not request performer
                  to take stills or video of full body slate in landscape.

    67. Amend Appendix C., Schedule A.I.I.1. ­ Auditions of the 2022 MOA to add new
         Subsection (x) as follows:

                  (x) Self-tapes for dancers shall be subject to the following additional
                  requirements:

                           The Producer shall supply any music or sound required for the self-
                           tape.
                           The Producer shall supply specific choreography. The specific
                           choreography:
                           (i) may not exceed four eight-beat counts;
                           (ii) must be capable of being performed in an indoor space no larger
                           than 8 feet x 8 feet x 8 feet; and
                           (iii) must be solo performance (i.e., no two-person or multi-person
                           dances)

    68. Add the below as new Sections [XX] and [XX.1] to the SAG-AFTRA Commercials
         Contract (including in Section I, "Applicable Provisions" of Schedule D, "Extras").1

1 This section shall apply to the creation of any Digital Replica and/or Synthetic Performer Alteration and to any use
of Generative Artificial Intelligence as set forth in this [XX] as of the effective date of the 2025 SAG-AFTRA
Commercials Contract regardless of when the performances that are altered, used as the basis for digital replication,
or used as training data for Generative Artificial Intelligence were originally performed and/or recorded.

                                                              45
         [XX]. DIGITAL REPLICATION AND ALTERATION

             The parties acknowledge that Producers have historically used digital technologies to
replicate or alter a performer's voice, likeness, and performance (e.g., CGI, motion capture
processing, audio/visual effects ("VFX", and other digital technologies that may have components
that use artificial intelligence), and including any future versions, updated generations, or
subsequent iterations of the same historically-used digital technologies) during all stages of
commercial production (e.g., storyboarding, pre-visualization, pre-production, production, post-
production, distribution, etc.) and may continue to do so, consistent with historical practices.
Except as explicitly set forth herein, it is understood that this Section XX does not expand or reduce
any existing rights and obligations under the SAG-AFTRA Commercials Contract and/or Audio
Commercials Contract (hereafter collectively, "Commercials Contracts"). This Section XX will
apply only prospectively to existing agreements entered into prior to the Effective Date of the 2025
Commercials Contracts between Producers and Performers (defined below) with respect to the
creation and/or use of a Digital Replica (defined below) and shall not be deemed to automatically
modify the economic terms of such agreements. This Section XX will not modify any existing
agreements that the Union has previously approved.

                      A. Definition of "Digital Replica": A "digital replica" is a computer program
made in whole or in part using the voice, image and/or performance of a Principal Performer or
Extra Performer (as such terms are defined in the Commercials Contracts and hereafter
collectively, "Performer") that can independently generate new performances not previously
rendered by Performer.

                      B. Scope: This Section XX will apply to any use of a Digital Replica in a
covered commercial where such use would render the Performer a Principal Performer or an Extra
Performer, regardless of whether the Digital Replica is based upon Performer's services rendered
under the Commercials Contracts and regardless of whether the Digital Replica was created by
Producer, subject to the applicable terms below.

                      C. Notice and Consent:

                      1. Timing:

                      If Producer wishes to record a performance covered under the Commercials
Contracts to create a Digital Replica, Producer shall notify Performer and obtain their consent,
using commercially reasonable efforts to do so at least 48 hours prior to such performance unless
performer is engaged less than 48 hours prior to the performance, in which case Producer shall use
commercially reasonable efforts to notify and obtain consent from the performer not less than 24
hours prior to the performance. In the event Producer first seeks consent from Performer at the
time of the performance and Performer in good faith refuses such consent, Producer may terminate
engagement of such Performer, who shall be paid for that day at the greater of their negotiated rate
or applicable minimum. When known, the Producer shall indicate in any casting notice that a
Digital Replica will be created.

                                    a) If Producer wishes to create a Digital Replica using an
existing performance created by Producer, Producer shall notify Performer and obtain their
consent, using commercially reasonable efforts to do so at least 48 hours prior to the creation of
the Digital Replica unless the Digital Replica is to be created in less than 48 hours, in which case
Producer shall use commercially reasonable efforts to notify and obtain consent from Performer

                                                              46
not less than 24 hours prior to creation or use of the Digital Replica.

                                    b) If Producer wishes to use an existing Digital Replica not
created by Producer, or create a Digital Replica based upon performances not created by Producer,
or create a Digital Replica based upon performances not created under the Commercials Contracts,
Producer shall obtain Performer's consent prior to the creation or use of the Digital Replica, using
commercially reasonable efforts to do so at least 48 hours prior to use or creation, unless the Digital
Replica performance is to be created or used in less than 48 hours, in which case notice and consent
must be obtained not less than 24 hours prior to use or creation. If, after commercially reasonable
efforts, Producer cannot locate Performer in order to obtain consent, Producer may contact the
Union, and the Union shall assist in locating the Performer or the Performer's authorized
representative.

                                    c) Producer may obtain Performer's consent to the use of a
Digital Replica to generate performances in commercials for which Performer has not yet been
engaged provided that: (i) the performance(s) to be generated are consented to in the reasonably
specific description; and (ii) such commercials are for the same advertiser and product line and
production commences within the maximum period of use ("MPU") of the original commercial
for which Producer engaged performer. Each new commercial containing a performance
generated by the Digital Replica shall be subject to the same maximum period of use as the original
commercial for which Producer engaged performer but in no event less than six (6) months, except
when performer was originally engaged under a multi-service agreement under Section 47.E of
the Commercials Contract, in which case each new commercial containing a performance
generated by the Digital Replica shall have its own, new, MPU.

                                    d) Use of Performer's Digital Replica to generate a
performance for a commercial for which Performer has not yet been engaged shall constitute an
engagement of Performer for that commercial.

                      2. Requirements for Valid Consent: Except as provided in Section C.3 below,
Producer must provide Performer with a reasonably specific description of the intended use of the
Digital Replica in order to obtain valid consent. Performer's consent must also be clear and
conspicuous, obtained either through the Digital Replica Rider appended to Performer's
employment contract or in a separate writing that is signed by Performer. In the event that
Producer wishes to use the Digital Replica in a commercial in a manner that goes beyond the
reasonably specific description initially provided to Performer, Producer must obtain additional
consent and provide a new reasonably specific description of the intended use. For clarity, Section
17 of the Commercials Contract, "Restrictions on Use of Commercials; Additional Services" shall
apply to any use of the performance other than in commercials.

                      3. Circumstances Requiring Additional Consent: Unless consented to by
Performer and explicitly included as part of a reasonably specific description, Producer may not
use a Digital Replica to modify or create a performance that changes the Performer's physical
traits (excluding, for example, adding a voice echo or sweetening), causes the performer to appear
nude (including pasties and genital socks) or partially nude (e.g., shirtless or pantless, only wearing
a bathing suit or underwear, sheer or transparent clothing), or that could be offensive to a
reasonable person.

                      4. Deceased Performers: Any consent that Performer grants during their
lifetime shall continue to be valid after Performer's death unless explicitly limited at the time the

                                                              47
consent was granted or by subsequent mutual agreement. In the event Performer is deceased (and
Producer has not already obtained consent during Performer's lifetime or Performer's consent is
no longer valid after death), Producer shall obtain the consent of the deceased Performer's
authorized representative for this purpose (or the Union, if the deceased Performer's authorized
representative for this purpose cannot be identified or located).

                      5. Suspension of Consent: Any consent to use a Digital Replica to create new
performances shall be deemed suspended for the duration of any strike of the Commercials
Contract.

                      6. Copy of Commercials. Upon request, Producer must provide Performer
with a copy of any commercial that contains a performance generated using their Digital Replica.
If Producer provides a private link to the commercial, Performer cannot make a claim for
unauthorized use after the expiration of the MPU based on availability of the commercial via the
private link.

                      D. Payment and Terms:

                      1. Session Payments to Create a Digital Replica: Any time spent by Performer
at Producer's instruction to create a Digital Replica shall be treated as work time.

                      2. Session Payments for Use of Digital Replica to Generate a Performance:

                            a) If Producer uses a Digital Replica to generate a performance that
Performer would otherwise have performed in person, Performer shall be paid 1.5 scale session
fees for each commercial in which a performance generated by a Digital Replica is used. One
scale session fee may be applied to use fees.

                            b) For clarity, if the Digital Replica is utilized to generate a
performance that would render a Performer engaged as an Extra Performer eligible for an upgrade
to a Principal Performer, Performer shall be paid the additional scale session compensation
necessary to meet the minimums applicable to that Principal Performer category.

                            c) For clarity, if the Digital Replica is utilized to generate a
performance that would result in a downgrade or outgrade, Performer shall only be paid the scale
session compensation required under Section 27, Downgrading and Outgrading.

                            d) No additional compensation shall be required if Performer's session
compensation would have compensated for the in-person services that were replaced by the Digital
Replica's performance (e.g., where Performer has a sufficient overscale guarantee that was
negotiated to include the value of such in-person services or where the in-person services could
have been rendered during a session(s) for which Performer was otherwise compensated).

                      3. Use and Holding Fees: Performer shall be paid for the use of a performance
generated by a Digital Replica as if Performer had performed in person, including all holding and
use fees at scale. For clarity, if the Digital Replica is used to generate a performance of a Performer
engaged as an Extra Performer that would render them eligible to be upgraded to a Principal
Performer had they rendered the performance generated by the Digital Replica in person,
Performer shall be due use and holding fees at scale as though they had been originally engaged
as a Principal Performer.

                                                              48
                      4. Applicable Terms: Requirements and obligations of the Commercials
Contracts that by their nature are relevant to an in-person performance and a performance
generated by a Digital Replica shall apply to the performance generated by a Digital Replica,
including specifically those set forth below. Those requirements and obligations of the
Commercials Contracts that apply to an in-person performance but are not relevant to a
performance generated by a Digital Replica shall not apply (e.g., Working Conditions, Rest
Periods, Contracts, Audition-related provisions, Travel provisions, and Conditions for the
Employment of Minors).

                            a) In the event Performer's face does not remain in a performance
generated by the Digital Replica, then consistent with Section 27 of the Commercials Contract,
Downgrading and Outgrading, Performer may be downgraded.

                            b) A Digital Replica of Performer engaged as an Extra Performer may
not be used to circumvent the requirements for crowd work under Schedule D, Section II, 2, Crowd
Work, the terms of which shall apply equally to commercials that include a performance generated
by a Digital Replica, to avoid the engagement of that Performer, or to avoid the payment of
overtime compensation by intentionally substituting the performance generated by the Digital
Replica to continue a work day.

                      5. Payments are Gross Compensation: All payments made in connection with
the creation and/or use of a performance generated by a Digital Replica will be treated as gross
compensation for all purposes including, but not limited to, contributions due under Section 47 ­
Contributions to Pension and Health Plans of the Commercials Contract.

                      6. Disposition of Digital Replica:

                            a) Protection of Digital Replica: Producer shall at all times limit access
to a Digital Replica to persons with a legitimate business need for such access and use
commercially reasonable efforts to protect the security of the Digital Replica to prevent
unauthorized access, use or copying.

                            b) Retention of Digital Replica: Producer may retain the Digital
Replica during the MPU of the commercial for which the Digital Replica was used to generate a
performance. Producer may negotiate with Performer for consent, which must be in writing, to
retain a Digital Replica after completion of the MPU of the last commercial(s) for which it was
used. In the event that no commercial is in fact made that uses a performance generated by the
Digital Replica, Producer may retain the Digital Replica for twenty-four (24) months following
the date that Performer consented to the creation of the Digital Replica. Performer and Producer
may thereafter agree to additional periods of retention of the Digital Replica, each of which shall
be limited to not more than twenty-four (24) months from expiration of the prior consent period.

                            c) Transfer of Digital Replica: If Producer transfers rights to a Digital
Replica that it is authorized to retain pursuant to subsection (b) above, then such transfer shall be
noted on the Transfer of Rights Assumption Agreement required by Section 56 of the Commercials
Contract.

                      7. Destruction of Digital Replica: If Producer has not obtained consent to
retain a Digital Replica as set forth in subsection (b) above, then Producer shall permanently and
irrevocably delete all copies of the Digital Replica and certify in writing to the Performer within
ninety (90) days that such deletion has occurred. This provision shall not impact Producer's

                                                              49
ownership of commercials containing performances generated by the Digital Replica, and
Producer is not required to destroy any commercials produced that contain performances generated
by the Digital Replica.

                      E. Digital Replica Examples:

            Creating the Digital Replica Using the Commercial Production Performance

                               Creative and Reasonably Specific Description

Producer engages Performer as an on-camera principal for one commercial advertising the brand's
lighter yogurt. In addition, under XX.C.1.a, during the production, Producer wishes to create a
Digital Replica of Performer using the on-camera principal performance. The Digital Replica will
be used to generate a performance in a future commercial (that will commence production before
the expiration of the MPU for the current commercial) for the brand's lighter yogurt in lieu of
Performer rendering an in-person on-camera principal performance and to create a still image for
a non-covered billboard.

The performance generated by the Digital Replica will show Performer floating through their
house to the delight of their children (engaged as extras) thanks to advertiser's new lighter yogurt.
Forty-eight (48) hours in advance of the performance, Producer provides Performer with the
following reasonably specific description of this intended use:

         "Performer agrees that Producer may create and use Performer's Digital Replica to
         generate a future performance in which Performer's character floats in order to
         represent the lightness of advertiser's yogurt."

Explanation: A description is reasonably specific if it complies with Sections 9 and Sch.A.I.I.1(o)
and conveys information consistent with what a performer would receive (including, for example,
scripts and storyboards) at the time of casting and audition.

Consistent with XX.C.1.d., the Digital Replica Rider to Performer's Exhibit 1 contract for the on-
camera principal performance includes the above reasonably specific description for the use of the
Digital Replica to generate future performances in commercials for advertiser's lighter yogurt for
which performer has not been engaged. Producer separately bargains for payment for the non-
covered service/use for the still billboard.

Explanation: The language purporting to extend Performer's consent to the use of their Digital
Replica to create the "floating performance" in future commercials for advertiser's yogurt is valid
for new commercials the production of which commences during the MPU of the original
commercial that Performer appeared in, and because the "floating performance" is within the
reasonably specific description to which Performer agreed and the commercials are for the same
advertiser and the same product line. Any use of the Digital Replica in a future commercial that
is not consented to in the reasonably specific description would require additional consent based
on a new reasonably specific description of the proposed use. For clarity, notice and consent are
not required if a commercial that includes a performance generated by the Digital Replica is edited
to create shorter/longer/same length ("S/L/S") versions, permitted edits, paid edits, or
addressable edits, provided any applicable S/L/S version fee(s), paid edit fee(s) or addressable
edit fee is paid to Performer as required under Section 37. The consent to the use of the Digital

                                                              50
Replica to generate an image for a billboard is valid because it does not constitute use of the
performance in a covered commercial.

                     Production Day, Session, and Use for In-Person Performance

Performer performs as an on-camera principal for one day for one commercial. That performance
is used to create the Digital Replica without additional work by Performer. Performer is owed one
session fee for the on-camera principal performance and on-camera principal use and holding fees
when the commercial is used.

               Using Digital Replica to Generate a Performance in a New Commercial

Producer later uses the Digital Replica to generate an on-camera principal performance in a new
commercial for advertiser's lighter yogurt that commenced production prior to the expiration of
the MPU for the original commercial for which Producer engaged Performer. The performance is
consented to in the reasonably specific description previously agreed to by Performer.

                    Session, and Use for Performance Generated by Digital Replica

The Digital Replica generated a performance for one new commercial. Performer is due 1.5
session fees for using the Digital Replica to generate a performance in the new commercial.
Performer is due on-camera principal use and holding fees for the new commercial. One session
fee may be applied.

Explanation: Use of Performer's Digital Replica to generate the "floating performance" in new
commercials will be treated as an engagement of the Performer for each of those commercials.

                    Creating the Digital Replica During the Commercial Production

Producer engages Performer as an on-camera principal for one commercial advertising the brand's
lighter yogurt. In addition, under XX.C.1.a, during the production, Producer wishes to create a
Digital Replica of Performer during a scanning session occurring on a separate day from the on-
camera services. The Digital Replica will be used to generate a performance in a future
commercial (that will commence production before the expiration of the MPU for the current
commercial) for the brand's lighter yogurt in lieu of Performer rendering an in-person on-camera
principal performance.

The performance generated by the Digital Replica will show Performer floating through their
house to the delight of their children (engaged as extras) thanks to advertiser's new lighter yogurt.
Forty-eight (48) hours in advance of the scanning session, Producer provides Performer with the
following reasonably specific description of this intended use:

         "Performer agrees that Producer may create and use Performer's Digital Replica to
         generate a future performance in which Performer's character floats in order to
         represent the lightness of advertiser's yogurt."

Consistent with XX.C.1.d., the Digital Replica Rider to Performer's Exhibit 1 contract for the on-
camera principal performance includes the above reasonably specific description for the use of the
Digital Replica to generate future performances in commercials for advertiser's lighter yogurt for
which Performer has not been engaged.

                                                              51
Explanation: Performances that show Performer flying or riding a magic carpet or include other
visual or aural elements that convey "floating," "flying" or "lightness" are all within the
reasonably specific description provided.

                     Production Day, Session, and Use for In-Person Performance

Performer performs as an on-camera principal for one day for one commercial and a separate day
for the creation of the Digital Replica. Performer is owed one session fee for the on-camera
principal performance, one session fee for the work performed on a separate day to create the
Digital Replica, and on-camera principal use and holding fees when the commercial that includes
their live performance is used.

Same fact pattern as above, except that instead of an Exhibit 1 with a Digital Replica Rider,
Performer is engaged under an overscale guarantee with wages and fees credited at double scale.
Producer should credit four session fees against Performer's overscale guarantee: two for the
scanning day and two for the regular filming day.

The foregoing is in addition to payments that may be due if a performance generated by a Digital
Replica is used in a commercial (see below).

                    Session, and Use for Performance Generated by Digital Replica

The Digital Replica generated a performance for one new commercial. Performer is due 1.5
session fees for using the Digital Replica to generate a performance in the new commercial.
Performer is due on-camera principal use and holding fees for the new commercial. One session
fee may be applied.

Explanation: Use of Performer's Digital Replica to generate the "floating" performance in new
commercials is treated as an engagement of the Performer for each of those commercials.

                               Use of a Digital Replica for a Non-Air Demo

Producer creates a non-air demo for a new commercial for the brand's lighter yogurt within the
MPU of the original commercial and uses Performer's Digital Replica to generate a voiceover
performance for the non-air demo. Producer must obtain additional consent to a new reasonably
specific description that discloses this intended use and pay performer 1.5 session fees per Section
19, Test Market and "Non-Air" Commercials for the use of the Digital Replica to generate the
voiceover performance. All terms of Section 19 apply to the non-air demo created.

Explanation: The original reasonably specific description that Performer consented to was for an
on-camera "floating" performance. Since the performance being generated is for a voiceover,
Producer must provide a new reasonably specific description for Performer's consent.

                                     Using the Digital Replica to Make Changes

     Producer subsequently wishes to use the Digital Replica to change the color of Performer's
         shirt, add an echo effect to Performer's voice, and depict Performer holding a book.
         Producer may make these changes without further consent or compensation because they
         do not change the Performer's physical traits, do not cause the Performer to appear nude

                                                              52
          or partially nude, are not offensive to a reasonable person, and are changes that could be
          accomplished with traditional editing techniques.
      Producer subsequently wishes to use the Digital Replica to change the color of Performer's
          hair and eyes and alter their voice to give them a different accent. Producer may not make
          any of these changes without further consent because they modify Performer's physical
          traits.
      Now assume that Producer engaged Performer and obtained their consent to create a Digital
          Replica of them without providing a reasonably specific description of the intended use.
          Producer may use the Digital Replica to change the color of Performer's shirt and add an
          echo effect to Performer's voice because these changes can be achieved using traditional
          editing techniques, do not change the Performer's physical traits, do not cause the
          Performer to appear nude or partially nude, and are not offensive to reasonable person.
          These changes are permitted edits. Producer will not be able to use the Digital Replica to
          cause the Performer to float unless it first obtains additional consent from Performer based
          upon a reasonably specific description that describes that intended use.

                          Using a Digital Replica to Generate an Upgraded Performance

 Producer now wishes to create an unpermitted edit, resulting in a new commercial. Producer uses
 the performance of one of the child performers who was engaged as an extra for one day to portray
 one of the delighted children in the lighter yogurt commercial to create a Digital Replica of the
 child.

 Producer must now provide a reasonably specific description and obtain the consent of the child
 Performer's parent or authorized representative to create and use the Digital Replica.

 In the new commercial, the delighted child will begin to float towards the original Performer
 because the child, too, has eaten the yogurt, which can now be seen in their hand. The new
 commercial is produced within the MPU of the first commercial that contained the original
 Performer's "floating performance." Therefore, no further consent is required from the Performer.
 The new commercial will be subject to the MPU of the first commercial but in no event less than
 six (6) months.

 In connection with the creation of the new commercial, in which the Digital Replica is used to
 generate an on-camera principal performance of the child Performer, Producer must pay the child
 1.5 principal session fees, one of which may be applied, and on-camera principal use and holding
 fees for the new commercial that includes the on-camera principal performance generated by their
 Digital Replica.

               Using a Digital Replica to Generate a Performance by a Deceased Performer

Performer is now deceased. Producer wishes to use Performer's Digital Replica (the consent for
the creation of which was obtained during the production of the original commercial) to portray the
Performer's character in two additional commercials, both of which are produced during the MPU
of the original commercial made with the Performer's "floating performance."

The first new commercial uses the Performer's Digital Replica to generate a performance of
Performer riding on a magic carpet instead of floating unassisted. No new consent is needed for

                                                               53
this new commercial because the generated performance falls within the reasonably specific
description that Performer agreed to while alive and does not change the Performer's physical traits,
cause them to appear nude or partially nude, and is not offensive to a reasonable person.

The performance generated for the second new commercial shows Performer on top of a mountain
meditating. The performance generated for the second commercial is not within the reasonably
specific description to which Performer originally agreed. Producer must, therefore, obtain the
consent of Performer's authorized representative for this purpose (e.g., their estate, an heir or
beneficiary, a licensing company that holds their rights). Producer shall pay Performer's estate 1.5
on-camera principal session fees for the use of the Digital Replica to generate the performance in
the new commercial, one of which may be applied, and on-camera principal use and holding fees.

          [XX.1.] GENERATIVE ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE

                       The parties acknowledge that for the purpose of the Commercials Contracts,
 Generative Artificial Intelligence ("GAI") generally refers to a subset of artificial intelligence that
 learns patterns from data and produces content based on those patterns (e.g., ChatGPT4,
 MidJourney, Dall-E2, Sora, Veo, ElevenLabs). GAI does not include "traditional AI" technologies
 programmed to perform specific functions (e.g., CGI and VFX), such as those already used during
 all stages of commercial production (e.g., pre-visualization, pre-production, production, post-
 production, editing, distribution, marketing).

                       A. Use of Synthetic Performers Created Through Generative Artificial
          Intelligence:

                       1. Definition: A "Synthetic Performer" is a digitally-created asset that: (1) is
 intended to and does create, the clear impression that the asset is a human performer that Producer
 knows or should know is not recognizable as an identifiable human performer; (2) is not voiced
 by a human performer; and (3) is not a Digital Replica (as defined in Section [XX] above). The
 parties acknowledge that the term "Performer" as used in the Commercials Contracts, including
 "Principal Performers," "Extra Performers"--refers and has always referred only to humans.

                       2. Payment: The parties acknowledge the importance of human performance
 in commercials. Producer shall not use a Synthetic Performer primarily or materially for reasons
 of economy or economic advantages in the engagement of performers. In the event Producer
 violates the foregoing sentence, Producer shall pay the economic equivalent of what a human
 performer would have been paid to perform in the Synthetic Performer role (including session,
 holding and use) as a contribution to the SAG-AFTRA Health Plan and SAG Pension Plan or
 AFTRA Retirement Fund, as applicable. Producer will pay the following based upon the
 performer category in which the Synthetic Performer is used:

                       a) Except as set forth in (b) below, Synthetic Performers may only be used in
 commercials that also include human principal Performers engaged under the Commercials
 Contracts. Where a Synthetic Performer is used in a commercial that includes the on-camera
 principal performance of at least one (1) human, the following applies: Producer shall, within thirty
 (30) days of the first air date of the commercial, pay 1.5 session fees and contributions under
 Section 47 ­ Contributions to Pension and Health Plans of the Commercials Contract based upon
 the 1.5 session fees and, where applicable based upon performer category, scale use and holding
 fees that would have been due to a human performer rendering the performance. The Plans shall

                                                               54
notify the union at commercialsreporting@sagaftra.org of the use of the Synthetic Performer and
report the role and commercial in which the Synthetic Performer was used and the amount of the
payment made to the benefit plans for such use.

                      b) Where a commercial is produced using exclusively Synthetic Performers,
Producer and SAG-AFTRA shall (in consultation with the JPC when Producer is an authorizer)
negotiate in good faith regarding the amount of the contribution, if any, payable under Section 47
­ Contributions to Pension and Health Plans of the Commercials Contract.

                      3. Consent for Prompting: If Producer intends to and does create a Synthetic
Performer through the use of the name of an identified Performer(s) or through the use of any
image, photograph, or recording of the Performer in the prompt to a GAI system, Producer shall
obtain such Performer's consent and bargain with such Performer for payment at no less than the
minimum session fee then in effect under the Commercials Contracts for the use of the Synthetic
Performer in the commercial and no additional discussion with the Union, consideration, or
remuneration is required under this Section [XX.1].

                      4. Training Data: Producer may not use or authorize any other party to use the
results and proceeds of services rendered under the Commercials Contracts to train GAI systems
without consent of the Union. The foregoing shall not limit the ability of Producers to transfer
rights to commercials consistently with Section 56 of the Commercials Contract. Once transferred,
Transferor is no longer responsible for compliance with the terms of this Section XX.1 with respect
to the transferred commercials.

                      5. Meetings: The Industry Union Standing Committee shall meet during the
term of the Contract to discuss and review information related to use and intended use of GAI in
commercial production.

The Joint Policy Committee, LLC      SAG-AFTRA

____________________________         ________________________
Stacy K. Marcus                      Duncan Crabtree-Ireland
Chief Negotiator                     National Executive Director

Date: May 8, 2025                    Date: May 8, 2025

                                 55
