URL: https://sellercentral.amazon.com/help/hub/reference/external/GWJRQF3C34G4PRA2
Rendered: 2026-09-13T16:34:01.312Z (check 2, logged-out headless Chromium)

Get over $50K in potential incentives when you start selling with Amazon. Learn how
English
Select your preferred language
English - US
中文 - CN
한국어 - KR
Français - FR
Italiano - IT
हिंदी - IN
ไทย - TH
தமிழ் - IN
Tiếng Việt - VN
Deutsch - DE
Português - BR
中文 - TW
日本語 - JP
Español - ES
Log in
Sign up
This article applies to selling in: United States
Shoppable video guide
On this page
AI-generated people disclosure
Video types and uses
Technical specifications
Best practices
Upload videos
Troubleshooting
Video Metrics Dashboard

Shoppable videos can demonstrate your product in action, describe your product, and tell your unique brand story. When used effectively, videos can result in higher conversion rates and increased sales. You can upload videos of your product that will display next to images of the product.

Videos provide the following key benefits:

Increased customer confidence through product demonstrations
Better understanding of product size, features, and functionality
Reduced product returns through clearer expectations
Enhanced detail page engagement
On average, sellers who added videos to their detail pages observed a *23.8% increase in sales compared with an ASIN without a video (*Amazon internal historical data, January through June 2024).

To learn more, watch Benefits of adding a video to a product listing.

AI-generated people disclosure

Some jurisdictions may require disclosure when videos contain photorealistic AI-generated people. If your video includes photorealistic AI-generated people, you must tag that video with the appropriate metadata before uploading it to Amazon.

How to add the required metadata

Use an IPTC-compatible metadata editor to add the keyword contains-synthetic-performer to the dc:subject (XMP) field of your video file.

If you include this metadata, Amazon will add a disclosure to inform audiences that the video includes AI-generated people, where applicable.

For more information, go to How to tag media that contains an AI-generated person.

When to provide this metadata

Provide the contains-synthetic-performer tag if your video features people who were entirely generated by AI (not based on a real person).

When not to provide this metadata

Do not provide this metadata if any of the following conditions apply:

Your video only features real people (even if they have been altered with AI-powered tools) or
Your video only features characters from movies, video games, or other expressive works (or example, the poster art of a movie or a video game cover art)
Your video does not feature any people
The people in your video aren’t photorealistic

Video types and uses

Video type	Purpose	Content focus
Product overview	Showcase complete product information	
Comprehensive overview of product features and physical characteristics
Demonstration of real-life use cases and practical scenarios
Showcase of brand-specific features or common product functionalities
Visual representation of product dimensions and key attributes
May apply to a particular brand or demonstrate a product feature that is common across many products

Unboxing	Show packaging and initial product experience	
Product removal from shipping container
Visualization of product size and scale
Showcase of all box contents and accessories

Product operation and how-to	Demonstrate product usage	
Instructions for specific tasks or functions
Multiple use-case scenarios
Practical examples of functionality

Setup	Guide product assembly and installation	
Step-by-step guidance
Assembly process demonstration
Setup requirements and tools needed

Troubleshooting	Address common issues	
Problem-solving guidance
Preventive maintenance tips
Resolution steps for frequent problems

Brand story	Communicate brand identity	
Brand vision, mission, and values
Company journey and milestones
Product line overview
Brand differentiation points

Other	Cover additional content	
Specialized content outside other categories
Unique product aspects
Supplementary information

Rights and infringement

Your videos cannot infringe the intellectual or other property rights of third parties. Post only your own content or content that you have permission to use. Unless you have obtained permission from all relevant third parties, do not play music or include images, artwork, or other audiovisual works in your videos.

Technical specifications

Video file requirements
Parameter	Specification
File format	MOV or MP4
Maximum size	5 GB
Resolution	Up to 1080p
Aspect ratio	

Horizontal: 16 x 9

Vertical: 9 x 16


Duration	1-12 minutes
Thumbnail format	JPEG, PNG, GIF, or BMP
Thumbnail size	Under 5 MB

Technical constraints

Metadata edits are allowed after publication.
Each video must be associated with at least one ASIN.
US-Canada shared listings sync automatically, but no other marketplace sharing is supported. Note that we constantly experiment to deliver the best customer and seller experience. As part of this testing, some videos may appear on detail pages of shared global listings during the experimentation process.

Best practices

Shoppable videos must have clear product visibility, high-quality audio, proper lighting, professional presentation, and accurate product information.

Content quality standards
Allowed	Not allowed
✓ Focus on product features and benefits	✗ Include external website links
✓ Show the product in use	✗ Add promotional calls to action
✓ Demonstrate size and scale	✗ Use unauthorized music or artwork
✓ Include setup and assembly instructions when relevant	✗ Show visible third-party branding
✓ Address common customer questions	✗ Make misleading claims or provide incorrect information
✓ Use high-quality video (up to 1080p)	✗ Upload blurry or low-quality content
✓ Ensure clear audio recording	✗ Include external branding
✓ Maintain proper lighting throughout	✗ Add promotional content
✓ Create engaging thumbnails	✗ Use poor-quality thumbnails
✓ Use professional on-screen talent when applicable	

Note: We reserve the right to remove content or deactivate your account if content negatively affects customer experience, even if not expressly prohibited by these guidelines. You must comply with our Community guidelines, Conditions of use, Privacy policy, and Restricted products policy .

Upload videos

Before you upload a video, ensure the following requirements are met:

Your account has been active for more than three months (brand-registered or non-brand registered).
Product ASINs are created and listed.
Video files are in MOV or MP4 format, up to 1080p quality (max 5GB). Refer to the Video file requirements table above for more information.
Compliance with our Community guidelines.

Method 1: Upload through Upload and Manage Videos

To use the tool, follow these steps:


Go to Upload and Manage Videos
Click Upload video(s).
Fill in the required fields:
Title: Display name for the video
ASINs: Select the relevant products
Language: Select the supported language associated with your video.
Thumbnail: Auto-generated or upload custom (JPG, PNG, GIF, or BMP under 5MB)
Click Submit.

Method 2: Upload through Image Manager

To use the tool, follow these steps:


Go to Image Manager.
Select your product.
Click Videos on the product detail pane.
Click Upload video.
Fill in the required fields:
Title
Thumbnail is auto generated, or you can choose to replace with a JPEG, PNG, GIF, or BMP under 5MB. 1920 x 1080 pixels at 16:9 is recommended
Click Submit.

Important: Bulk upload of up to 15 videos at once is supported.

Variations

If you want a video to be uploaded to a selected set of ASINs, list them in the ASINs field during upload. This will map the video to only the specified ASINs. Don't activate the variation extension feature.

To extend a video to all variations of the mentioned ASINs, activate the variation extension feature by setting the Include ASINs product variations toggle to the “on” position.

Language support

You can upload videos in multiple languages. When you upload videos, select the language used in the video under Language of video. The drop-down list will include all languages that are supported in that store.

Thumbnails

A thumbnail will be automatically generated for the video. If you decide to replace it, click the thumbnail to upload an image. You must use a high-quality image in either JPEG or PNG format recommend, under 5MB in size. The image should be high-resolution with clear visibility.

Processing time

Videos uploads and updates will take the following amount of time to process:

Initial review: 1-7 business days
Publication to detail page: within three days after approval
ASIN variation updates: up to three days for changes

Note: Review and publication timelines may be longer before and during holiday shopping seasons.

Troubleshooting

When you upload a video, ensure the following:

Video meets format requirements
Title and thumbnail are provided
ASINs are correctly associated
Language selection is confirmed

Common issues and solutions
Issue	Symptoms and status	Troubleshooting steps	Additional checks
Video not displaying	Video uploaded but is not visible on detail page	

Go to Upload and select Manage Videos.
Check the video status.
Verify video has been in Published status for at least three days.
Ensure the ASINs tagged in the video match the ASINs featured in your video.
	

For softlines products:

If your listing has six or more images, the video will be suppressed on the desktop view.
Remove excess images to enable the video.


Video rejected	Rejection status in dashboard	

Go to Upload and select Manage Videos.
Search for the rejected video.
Click Manage.
Review the rejection reason.
Fix the identified issues.
Upload a new compliant version.
	

Verify compliance with:

No external links or URLs
No promotional calls-to-action
Community guidelines
Product category requirements


Upload failure	
Video won't upload
System error during upload
	

Verify file meets all technical requirements:

Format: MOV or MP4
Size: Maximum 5GB
Resolution: Up to 1080p
Duration: 1-12 minutes

	

Check thumbnail requirements:

Format: JPEG, PNG, GIF, or BMP
Size: under 5MB
Quality: high-resolution

Video Metrics Dashboard

Trends Calculations: Trends are calculated differently based on the metric type. We use averages for percentage metrics (like view duration percentage). We use sums for numerical metrics (like product clicks). The comparison is always made between the current period and the previous equivalent period.

Trend Graph Lines: Trends compare your currently selected date range to the equivalent previous period. You can change the date range using the dropdown button at the top of the dashboard.


A green color indicates that the metric has a positive trend.
A red color indicates that the metric has a negative trend.
No color indicates the metric is unchanged.

For return rate, a decrease in return rate will result in a green trend line to indicate fewer returns and an increase in return rate will show a red trend line to indicate an increase in returns.

Issue	Symptoms/Status	Troubleshooting
Metrics are blank for the video	All metrics for a video appear blank when there isn't enough data available	This may happen for two main reasons:
The video may not yet be published (it is still under review, or the video was rejected).
There is not enough data collected yet to calculate meaningful and accurate reporting.

Certain metrics are available while other metrics are blank	For one video, metrics are displaying data while other metrics are blank	Certain metrics may be hidden to protect seller privacy. Privacy protection activates when there are too few sellers with active offers on the ASINs tagged to your video. Metrics will display when there are more active offers on your video’s tagged ASIN(s).
How are metrics calculated for certain videos that are disabled but used to be live	The cards at the top of the dashboard count only videos which are published, processed or rejected	To include the video in the cumulative metric count for your desired time range, set your video to be live for your ASIN(s).

Shoppable video guide
Tips for creating a product video
Related articles
Product title requirements and guidelines
Product bullet point requirements
Attributes guide
Product image guide
Search optimization
A+ Content guide
Need more help?
Visit Seller Forums
See more on Seller Central
	
English
Sell with Amazon
How to Sell on Amazon
New Seller Guide
Amazon Global Selling
Selling Programs
Amazon Brand Registry
Amazon FBA
Amazon Ads
More Selling Programs
Tools
FBA Revenue Calculator
Brand Name Generator
Amazon Seller App
Resources
Seller Forums
Help Center
Seller University
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
© 2026 Amazon.com Services LLC.