URL: https://sellercentral.amazon.com/help/hub/reference/external/G1881?locale=en-US
STATUS: 200
TITLE: Product image guide
CAPTURED (UTC): 2026-09-10T08:47:40.338Z
METHOD: logged-out headless Chromium (Playwright), locale en-US, no cookies, visible body text

Get over $50K in potential incentives when you start selling with Amazon. Learn how
English
Select your preferred language
English - US
中文 - CN
한국어 - KR
Français - FR
Italiano - IT
हिंदी - IN
ไทย - TH
தமிழ் - IN
Tiếng Việt - VN
Deutsch - DE
Português - BR
中文 - TW
日本語 - JP
Español - ES
Log in
Sign up
This article applies to selling in: United States
Product image guide
On this page
Product image submission and selection
AI-generated people disclosure
Image variants
Product image specifications
MAIN product image requirements
Requirements for all product images

To get an overview of how to upload and manage product images, listen to this Seller Central Podcast episode.

This page explains product image requirements and specifications, including main image standards, variant types, and category-specific guidance to help you create compliant images for your listings.

Product images are essential for selling on our site. High-quality images provide the following benefits:

Help customers assess products accurately
Improve product discoverability in search
Increase customer confidence in purchasing decisions
Reduce product returns due to mismatched expectations

Product image submission and selection

Every product requires at least one compliant main image. We recommend that you upload at least six additional images and one video to help customers evaluate products effectively.

You can upload additional images to your listings at any time. For detailed steps on how to upload images, go to Upload images.

For more information on our video guidelines, go to Shoppable video guide.

Uploading an image doesn't guarantee it will be displayed on the product detail page. We select and arrange images from multiple selling partners to ensure each product has enough high-quality images for buyers. To maximize the chance of your images being displayed, ensure they comply with our product image requirements.

If your image is selected for display, it can take up to 24 hours after you upload it to appear on the product detail page.

Important

The following restrictions apply to images that do not meet our technical and visual standards:

Images that fail to meet technical requirements cannot be uploaded to our system.
Images that fail to meet product image requirements or violate our Selling policies and seller code of conduct may be removed.
If there is no main image that meets the requirements, we may temporarily remove the product listing from search until a compliant main image is provided.

AI-generated people disclosure

Some jurisdictions may require disclosure when product images contain photorealistic AI-generated people. If your image includes photorealistic AI-generated people, you must tag that image with the appropriate metadata before uploading it to Amazon.

How to add the required metadata

Use an IPTC-compatible metadata editor to add the keyword contains-synthetic-performer to the dc:subject (XMP) field of your image file. If you include this metadata, Amazon will add a disclosure to inform audiences that the image includes AI-generated people, where applicable.

For more information, go to How to tag media that contains an AI-generated person.

When to provide this metadata

Provide the contains-synthetic-performer tag if your image features people who were entirely generated by AI (not based on a real person).

When not to provide this metadata

Do not provide this metadata if any of the following conditions apply:

Your image only features real people (even if they have been altered with AI-powered tools) or
Your image only features characters from movies, video games, or other expressive works (or example, the poster art of a movie or a video game cover art)
Your image does not feature any people
The people in your image aren’t photorealistic

Image variants

Images displayed on the product detail page feature a main image that is shown in search results and is the first image displayed on the page. Additional images are called image variants, and there are various types, each with their own variant code.

When using Image manager to upload images, we'll recommend additional pre-selected image variant types for your product based on the product category style guide. If you want to include a variant that is not pre-selected, select the dropdown arrow icon next to the variant name to replace it with another variant identifier code.

When you upload images in bulk with the Upload Images tool, variant codes are required in the name of the image file. For more information on how to name your image files to upload them in bulk, go to the Upload images help page help page.

Image type	Description	Variant codes
Main image	Used for main images. Shows in search and browse and is the primary image on your product detail page.	MAIN
Product safety and compliance	Images depicting warning and safety information. Displayed in the "Safety and Product Resources" section.	PS01–PS06
Swatch shots	Appears in the thumbnail underneath or to the right of the larger image. Usually a color sample image for pages with multiple versions. If no SWCH exists, the MAIN image is used as the thumbnail.	SWCH
Variants	Used for additional angles, product in use, screenshots, accessories, or product details.	PT01–PT99
Interior shots	Usually used for sample pages of books.	IN01–IN99
Angle shots	Used to show additional angles or sides of a product.	TOPP, BOTT, LEFT, RGHT, FRNT, BACK, SIDE
Ingredient information	Used for information about ingredients.	INGR
Energy guide	Used to show energy guide images.	EEGL
Multipack image	Used to show multiple items packaged together or large quantities of identical items.	DTLS

Product image specifications

Review the following table for required image specifications.

Note: Most image-editing software lets you check and change pixel dimensions. If you don't have image-editing software, right-click the image file and view its properties to check dimensions.
For detailed guidance on filcolor modes, ICC profiles, and file compression, go to Technical image file requirements.

Requirement type	Specification	Required	Notes
Supported file formats	JPEG (.jpg or .jpeg), TIFF (.tif or .tiff), PNG (.png), non-animated GIF (.gif)	JPEG recommended	


Image size	Minimum 500 pixels and maximum Maximum 10,000 pixels on the longest side	Yes	

Images below 500 pixels on the longest side cannot be uploaded. Do not artificially enlarge small images.

We recommend 1,000+ pixels for the best customer experience. Images with 1,000+ pixels on the longest side enable the zoom function.


Resolution	At least 72 dpi	Yes	
Image quality	Clear, non-pixelated, no jagged edges	Yes	


Color mode	RGB	Preferred	
Image names	Image files must be named: Product identifier + variant code + file extension.

Example: B000123456.MAIN.jpg

	Optional	

The file name requires three components, separated by a period (spaces, dashes, or additional characters will prevent your image from uploading).

The product identifier is the barcode number, ASIN, UPC, ISBN (10 or 13), EAN, GTIN, or JAN.

MAIN product image requirements

The first image on the detail page is called the "main image," and is identified by the MAIN variant code. This image is also shown to customers in search results.

Your main product image must meet the following requirements.

Basic requirements

Accurately represent the product as a realistic, professional-quality image. The image should accurately represent the real scale, quantity, and color of the product.
No placeholders: This includes a temporary placeholder, since the first image uploaded defines the product identity. Using a temporary placeholder can cause your intended image to be blocked from upload.
Show the product as 85% of the image.
Show the entire product within the frame of the image. Do not cut off any part of the product.
Only show the product once in the image. For example, show the front only, and not both the front and the back in the same image. For a detailed example, go to Multiple product views.
Show only one unit of the product and any accessories that are included with the product.

Background and visual requirements

Have a pure white background (RGB color values: 255, 255, 255) to create a consistent shopping experience for customers across search and product detail pages.
Only a limited number of product types are allowed to have a lifestyle image as a main image (with no text or extra logos). For more information, go to the Product page style guide.
Don’t include packaging, unless it’s an important product feature (for example, a carrying case or gift basket may be included).

Model and display requirements

Don't show accessories or any props that aren't included with the product and could confuse the customer.
Don’t show any part of a mannequin, regardless of the mannequin’s appearance. This includes being clear, solid-color, flesh-toned, framework, or on a hanger.
Show a single shoe, facing left, at a 45-degree angle (applies to all footwear).
Show clothing accessories or multipacks flat, without a model.
Show on a model if the product is clothing in adult sizes. The model must be standing, not sitting, kneeling, leaning, or lying down. However, we encourage representing various physical mobilities and models who use assistive technology, such as wheelchairs and prosthetics.

Category-specific guidance

For multipacks, assortments and clothing, go to the following help pages:

Image guidelines for clothing
Multipack imaging standards (not clothing)

Requirements for all product images

In addition to the MAIN product image requirements, all product images must meet the following requirements:

Accurately represent the product that you’re selling.
Match the product’s title.
No nudity or sexually suggestive images. This includes both models and drawings.
Children’s and baby undergarments, leotards, swimwear, and similar form-fitting items must be photographed lying flat and without models.
No images of customer reviews, five-star imagery, claims (for example, free shipping), or selling partner-specific information.
No text or pricing details (swatch image only).
No Amazon logos or trademarks, variations, modifications, or anything confusingly similar to our logos and trademarks. This includes, but is not limited to, any words or logos with the terms "Amazon," "Prime," "Alexa," or the Amazon Smile design.
No badges used on Amazon, or variations, modifications, or anything confusingly similar to such badges. This includes, but is not limited to "Amazon's Choice," "Premium Choice," "Amazon Alexa," "Works with Amazon Alexa," "Best seller," or "Top seller." For more details, go to Intellectual property policy for sellers - trademarks.

Note: Images that fail to meet our product image requirements listed cannot be uploaded to our system or may be removed from search. Go to Image suppression to learn more.
Related articles
Product title requirements and guidelines
Product bullet point requirements
Attributes guide
Shoppable video guide
Search optimization
A+ Content guide
Need more help?
Visit Seller Forums
See more on Seller Central
	
English
Sell with Amazon
How to Sell on Amazon
New Seller Guide
Amazon Global Selling
Selling Programs
Amazon Brand Registry
Amazon FBA
Amazon Ads
More Selling Programs
Tools
FBA Revenue Calculator
Brand Name Generator
Amazon Seller App
Resources
Seller Forums
Help Center
Seller University
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
© 2026 Amazon.com Services LLC.