URL: https://sellercentral.amazon.com/help/hub/reference/external/GLG4RQK2Y2RJADU4
Rendered: 2026-09-13T16:33:55.074Z (check 2, logged-out headless Chromium)

Get over $50K in potential incentives when you start selling with Amazon. Learn how
English
Select your preferred language
English - US
中文 - CN
한국어 - KR
Français - FR
Italiano - IT
हिंदी - IN
ไทย - TH
தமிழ் - IN
Tiếng Việt - VN
Deutsch - DE
Português - BR
中文 - TW
日本語 - JP
Español - ES
Log in
Sign up
This article applies to selling in: United States
A+ Content guide
On this page
AI-generated people disclosure
Types of A+ Content
Technical requirements
Content creation process
Guidelines and best practices
Troubleshooting steps

A+ Content enables brand owners and authorized resellers to enhance their product detail pages with rich marketing content, which includes enhanced product descriptions and brand storytelling.

This comprehensive tool helps you showcase product features, communicate brand value, and provide detailed information that helps customers make informed purchases. The A+ Content Manager provides a structured way to create, manage, and publish enhanced content across product listings.

A+ Content provides the following benefits:

Increases product discoverability and conversion rates through enhanced detail pages
Reduces customer questions and negative reviews by proactively providing detailed product information
Strengthens brand presence with consistent messaging and visual storytelling
Improves the customer experience with product content that’s optimized for both desktop and mobile viewing
Note: A+ Content is available at no additional cost for basic and Premium features. There is no additional eligibility criteria for sellers to access Premium A+. To avoid rejection and delays in publishing, review all content against our A+ Content guidelines before submission.

AI-generated people disclosure

Some jurisdictions may require disclosure when videos contain photorealistic AI-generated people. If your video includes photorealistic AI-generated people, you must tag that video with the appropriate metadata before uploading it to Amazon.

How to add the required metadata

Use an IPTC-compatible metadata editor to add the keyword contains-synthetic-performer to the dc:subject (XMP) field of your video file.

If you include this metadata, Amazon will add a disclosure to inform audiences that the video includes AI-generated people, where applicable.

For more information, go to How to tag media that contains an AI-generated person.

You also have the option to check “AI-generated people” for AI-generated people within your image when you upload your image to your Creative Assets within A+ Content Manager and we will apply the necessary metadata for you.

When to provide this metadata

Provide the contains-synthetic-performer tag if your video features people who were entirely generated by AI (not based on a real person).

When not to provide this metadata

Do not provide this metadata if any of the following conditions apply:

Your video only features real people (even if they have been altered with AI-powered tools) or
Your video only features characters from movies, video games, or other expressive works (or example, the poster art of a movie or a video game cover art)
Your video does not feature any people
The people in your video aren’t photorealistic

Types of A+ Content

We offer three distinct types of A+ Content for product detail pages:

Basic A+ Content appears in the product description section, and provides access to modules for custom headers, images, text layouts, and product comparison charts with a rich-text editor.

Premium A+ Content enhances the product description section with advanced features such as interactive hotspots, multiple videos, enhanced comparison charts, larger images, carousels, and Q&A modules.

A+ brand story content, which appears in the From the brand section, supports one module with up to 19 pre-formatted cards in a carousel format. It features full-screen backgrounds, image and text cards, and links to products and brand stores. Brand story can be used alongside either basic or premium A+ Content, though these features are not supported for Books, Music, Video, or DVD categories.

Basic vs. premium
A+ Content type	Text and images	Image size	Comparison chart	Number of modules allowed on detail page	Module selection	Video and hotspot	Navigation carousel
Basic A+	Yes	970 x 300	Yes	5	14	No	No
Premium A+	Yes	1464 x 600	Yes	7	19	Yes	Yes

Technical requirements

System requirements
Requirement	Specification	Notes
Image format	.jpg, .bmp, .png	RGB colorspace only (CYMK not supported)
Image size	Under 2 MB per file	


Image resolution	Minimum 72 dpi	


Language	Match specified content language	Limited other languages allowed only for brand identity

The following technical restrictions apply to your content:

No animated images (GIFs)
No HTML tags
No CMYK color space
No watermarks
No QR codes
No hyperlinks or external redirects

Note: If your images are too large, they will be re-sized to fit the maximum sizes listed next to each template box (but not if they’re smaller than the template limits). You can also crop and scale your images directly in the tool.

Content creation process

Prerequisites and brand verification
Verification step	Requirements
Account role	Brand representatives and resellers
ASINs	Must be registered to your brand
Product images	Must meet technical specifications, with no animated images or watermarks
Brand name	Must exactly match Brand Registry (case sensitive)
GTIN and key attributes	UPC, part number, model number, style number, catalog number

Create A+ Content:

Follow these steps to create basic A+ Content:

Go to Advertising in the Vendor Central menu, select A+ Content Manager, and then click Start creating A+ content.
Name your content project, select the language, and choose the content modules. Be sure to save your progress frequently.
To add your content, enter product descriptions in the text fields and upload images to Media Library. Ensure you add alt-text for each image. Preview the content using the desktop and mobile views.
To apply the content, first search for ASIN families, and then select the target ASINs.
You can use bulk upload for more than 1,000 ASINs (10,000-ASIN limit per upload).
After submission, the review period may take up to seven business days. Publication will be complete within 24 hours after approval. Content will only be viewable on language-specific pages. We recommend that you maintain copies of all submissions for reference.

Guidelines and best practices

To ensure your content is of the highest quality, we recommend the following:

Include unique content that doesn't duplicate the image gallery.
Focus on product features and benefits rather than promotional language.
Make sure all content adheres to your brand’s aesthetic and voice, while remaining professional.

For images, ensure that you upload high-resolution files (minimum 72 dpi), submit in RGB color space (.jpg, .bmp, or .png formats), and keep files under 2MB each.

Guidelines
Acceptable	Not acceptable
✓ Write clear, descriptive alt-text for all images	✗ Include time-sensitive references
✓ Limit paragraphs to three sentences maximum	✗ Use promotional language or pricing
✓ Use consistent terminology throughout	✗ Make competitor comparisons
✓ Apply proper capitalization for headers	✗ Add external links or contact information
✓ Include serial commas	✗ Include warranty and guarantee information
✓ Use bold and italic formatting sparingly	✗ Add shipping details
✓ Spell out numbers under 10	✗ Include QR codes or personal information
✓ Use high-quality, clear images	✗ Upload blurry or low-quality images
✓ Ensure text is readable	✗ Include small, unreadable text
✓ Use unique images	✗ Duplicate images from gallery
✓ Focus on unique product features	✗ Add watermarks
✓ Answer common customer questions	✗ Use animated images
✓ Maintain clear visual hierarchy	


✓ Use comparison charts for same-brand products	


✓ Format content for mobile devices	

Publication best practices

We recommend that you take the following actions when you publish your content:


Give the content a final review, and ensure that you check the applied ASINs, verify language variations, and review all content in the preview mode.
After you submit your content, allow up to seven business days for approval. Be sure to monitor the approval status and address any rejection reasons.
After your content is published, ensure the following within 24 hours:
All ASINs are live and display correctly
Confirm language variations
Test all interactive elements

We recommend that you take the following documentation and maintenance steps:

Record all applied ASINs.
Document any custom modules.
Save template configurations.
Schedule regular content reviews.

Note: A maximum of 20 pending submissions are allowed at once. Save your work frequently as drafts to prevent loss of progress.

Troubleshooting steps

If your content does not display, take these steps:


Verify that the content status is Approved.
Check the ASIN status under Applied ASINs.
Confirm that the language selection is correct.
Ensure that you’ve waited 24 hours after approval
If the content is still not visible, contact Selling Partner Support.

Note: Amazon's Seller Assistant can provide help with this topic. For most language settings, the Seller Assistant can also directly connect you to Selling Partner Support.

If your content is rejected, take these steps:

Review the rejection reasons in A+ Content Manager.
Check against the A+ Content guidelines listed above.
Make the required corrections.
Resubmit for approval.

Note: A+ Content features are not yet supported for products sold through Seller Central in the Books, Music, Video, or DVD (BMVD) categories. A+ Content is not the same as Amazon Business enhanced content, which is a tool that lets you upload separate file documents to the detail page.

Related articles
Product title requirements and guidelines
Product bullet point requirements
Attributes guide
Product image guide
Shoppable video guide
Search optimization
Need more help?
Visit Seller Forums
See more on Seller Central
	
English
Sell with Amazon
How to Sell on Amazon
New Seller Guide
Amazon Global Selling
Selling Programs
Amazon Brand Registry
Amazon FBA
Amazon Ads
More Selling Programs
Tools
FBA Revenue Calculator
Brand Name Generator
Amazon Seller App
Resources
Seller Forums
Help Center
Seller University
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
© 2026 Amazon.com Services LLC.