          Bid and Purchase Order Language for Post Production

Terms that a post-production company may want to consider adding to its bid and/or the
cover page of the purchase order:

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Purchase Order or in any
Advertiser or Agency document or procedures:

    1. [Insert your company name] at all times shall be credited as the sole [insert your
         services] company, including, but not limited to, in the event Agency and/or
         Advertiser submits the work to any awards shows or contests, issues any press
         and/or publicity, posts on any social media platforms, and/or on YouTube.

    2. Agency and Advertiser acknowledge and agree [insert your company name]
         shall not be required to deliver the work unless it has received the first
         payment due under the payment terms of the purchase order.

    3. Agency and Advertiser shall be liable for all of [insert your company name]
         attorneys' fees and costs incurred by [insert your company name] for
         collection of late payments.

    4. Neither Agency nor Advertiser shall use or disclose "Post-production Company
         Confidential Information" (as defined below) for any purpose whatsoever other than
         their respective performance under this agreement. Post-production company
         confidential information includes, but is not limited to, non-publicly available
         business and financial information, advertising, marketing, post-production,
         editorial and production plans, ideas, concepts, scripts, storyboards, treatments,
         pitches, bids, budgets and pricing, relationships with employees, independent
         contractors, and suppliers, know-how, methods, techniques, processes, and trade
         secrets ("Post-production Company Confidential Information"). For the avoidance of
         any doubt Post-production Company Confidential Information shall never be
         disclosed, in any form, by Agency or Advertiser, or their respective representatives,
         employees and contractors to another commercial post-production business, entity,
         division or operation regardless of structure, ownership or affiliation.

                                                                                 ©copyright 2025, Association of Independent Commercial Producers, Inc.
5. Neither Agency, Advertiser nor any person acting on behalf of either, shall
    reverse engineer any materials delivered by [insert your company name]
    hereunder, by any means whatsoever, to discover, reveal, and/or use [insert
    company name] know- how, methods, techniques, processes, and trade secrets,
    all of which shall remain the sole property of [insert your company name].

6. Any sales tax, use tax, or other tax payable on post-production and delivery of the
    materials delivered to Agency/Advertiser including but not limited to any tariff(s)
    or duties that may be applicable to the post-production and/or importation or
    export of the materials (other than sales tax arising from [insert your company
    name] purchases of materials or supplies in connection with the post-production
    services) shall be the responsibility of Agency/Advertiser who shall pay, defend
    and hold harmless [insert your company name] from payment of any such taxes,
    tariff(s), or duties. Failure to meet any delivery, or other contractual deadline due
    to Agency's or Advertiser's failure to pay any import duties, tariffs, or otherwise
    timely clear customs shall be deemed a breach by the Agency/Advertiser and shall
    not excuse payment or performance by Agency and/or Advertiser under the
    purchase order.

                                                                          ©copyright 2025, Association of Independent Commercial Producers, Inc.
