URL: https://support.google.com/google-ads/answer/1722120?hl=en
Title: About the ad review process - Google Ads Help
Rendered: 2026-10-08T07:13:29.742Z
Length: 4168

Skip to main content
Google Ads Help
Help Center
Community
Announcements
Sign in
Manage ads
Ads and approvals
Fix ad approval issues
About the ad review process
About the ad review process
Google provides translated versions of the Advertising Policies Help Center, though they're not meant to change the content of the policies. The English version is the official language used to enforce Google Ads policies. To view this article in a different language, use the language dropdown at the bottom of the page.

To keep ads safe and appropriate for everyone, ads are reviewed to make sure they comply with Google Ads policies. Most ads are reviewed within one business day.

On this page

How ad review works
How long ad review takes
How to start ads on a particular date
Your ads under review

Check your ad’s status and get help if you need it. Most reviews are completed within one business day, but more complex reviews can take longer.

Check review status
How ad review works

After you create or edit an ad or asset, the review process begins automatically. The content in your ad is reviewed, including your headline, description, keywords, destination, and any images and video.

If your ad passes the review, its status will change to "Eligible" and it will start to run. If your ad's status is "Eligible" but it isn't running, check that the campaign it belongs to isn't paused.

If the review indicates that your ad violates a policy, its status will change to "Disapproved", which means it can’t show anywhere. You’ll be notified of the policy violation and informed what you can do next.

Learn how to Check the review status of an ad or asset.

Ad status is “Under review”

Your ad's status is "Under review" during the ad review process. Changes to your ad or assets restart the review process and may cause delays.

Google reserves the right to prioritize ad reviews or re-reviews to ensure the overall stability of system operations, or temporarily restrict ad serving to ensure policy compliance.

How long ad review takes
Most ads are reviewed within one business day. However, some reviews take longer if the ad requires a more complex review.
If your ad is under review for more than 2 full business days, check your ad’s status.
If your ad has been under review for more than a week, contact Google Ads support for assistance.
How to start ads on a particular date

If you need your ad reviewed by a particular date, submit the ad several days in advance. To stop an ad from running as soon as its status is "Eligible", pause the ad, ad group, or campaign. Paused ads are reviewed just like active ads. Learn how to Pause or resume your ads.

If you're also planning to launch a new webpage at the same time, that webpage will need to be complete for your ad to be reviewed.

To make sure that the new page stays hidden until your launch date:

Don't link to the new page on the rest of your website. If you were to link to the new page, then search engines might index it, and the page could start appearing in search results.
Configure your website’s "robots.txt" file. Your robots.txt file tells search engine crawlers which URLs the crawler can access on your site. You can update your robots.txt file to tell search engines not to index the page. When you’re ready to launch, update your robots.txt file again to allow crawlers to access the page. Learn How to write and submit a robots.txt file.
Related links
Check the review status of an ad or asset
Fix a disapproved ad or appeal a policy decision
Give feedback about this article
Need more help?
Post to the help community
Get answers from community members
Contact us
Tell us more and we’ll help you get there
Grow your business with Google Ads

Get in front of millions of customers when they're searching for businesses like yours on Google Search, YouTube, Maps and more.

Sign Up Today

Or get free, personalized support with a Google Ads Expert.

©2026 Google
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Google Ads Advertising Policies
About the Help Center
English‎
Help guide
Help guide
Hi, I’m a digital support assistant. Chat with me to find answers and solve account issues.
Let’s chat