URL: https://www.facebook.com/business/help/316478108955072?locale=en_US
Title: Significant Edits and Learning Phase | Meta Business Help Center
Rendered: 2026-10-08T07:30:57.944Z
Length: 4834

Get started
Advertise
Learn
Support
Start now
Business Help Center
Get support
Significant edits and learning phase
Chat with Meta AI business assistant for support around the clock
Still need help? Your business assistant can help resolve account issues and unblock your business.
Start chat

Every edit you make (during the learning phase or after it) has some effect on delivery, but not every edit causes the ad set to reenter the learning phase. Only a significant edit causes an ad set to reenter the learning phase. During the learning phase, the delivery system is exploring the best way to deliver your ad set based on the optimization event you chose for your ad sets. This can lead to less stable performance and a higher cost per result.

The following are considered significant edits:

Any change to targeting
Any change to ad creative
Any change to optimization event
Adding a new ad to your ad set
Pausing your ad set for 7 days or longer (the ad set reenters the learning phase once you unpause the ad set)
Changing bid strategy
Note: When using Advantage+ campaign budget (also known as Campaign budget, or Budget with Advantage+ on), switching your campaign bid strategy might cause multiple ad sets within the campaign to reenter the learning phase.

A change to any of the following areas may or may not be significant, depending on the magnitude of the change:

Ad set spending limit amount
Bid control, cost per result goal or ROAS goal amount
Budget amount
Note: When using Advantage+ campaign budget, adjusting your campaign budget might cause multiple ad sets within the campaign to reenter the learning phase.

For example, if you increase your budget from $100 to $101, that isn't likely to cause one or more ad sets to reenter the learning phase. However, if you change your budget from $100 to $1000, one or more ad sets may reenter the learning phase.

Common questions about Advantage+ campaign budget and learning phase
How long does the initial "learning" process typically take for ad sets with Advantage+ campaign budget? It'll take the same time as ad set budgets.
Will Advantage+ campaign budget cause ad sets to reenter the learning phase as it distributes budget? No, ad sets within the campaign won't reenter the learning phase as budget is distributed.
Will making a significant edit to one ad set (meaning the edit is made at the ad set level) cause other ad sets within the same campaign to reenter the learning phase? No, as long as the edit is made at the ad set level, other ad sets within the same campaign won't reenter the learning phase.
Will adding a new ad set to the campaign cause the rest of the ad sets to reenter the learning phase? No, adding an ad set to a campaign with Advantage+ campaign budget won't cause other ad sets within the same campaign to reenter the learning phase.
Is changing my disclaimer for ads about social issues, elections or politics considered a significant edit? Yes, changing the disclaimer you place on the ad is considered a significant edit.
Common support topics
About advertising restrictions
Business Help Center
Troubleshoot a disabled or restricted account
Business Help Center
About Meta Business Support Home
Business Help Center
Fix a failed payment issue on Meta
Business Help Center
Was this information helpful?
Yes
No
Feedback

More in this section: Create ads from Ad Manager

Basics
About ad delivery
About ad auctions
About the delivery system: placements
About frequency controls for reservation
About pacing
About the attribution setting
Learning Phase
About the learning phase
Significant edits and learning phase
About learning limited
Optimization
About performance goals
About landing page view optimization
Best practices for landing page view performance goals
About maximizing the value of conversions
Set up maximize value of conversions in your SKAdNetwork configuration
Eligibility requirements for maximize value of conversions
Manage
About managing ad volume
Ad limits per Page
Ad account limits
Combine ad sets and campaigns in Meta Ads Manager to reduce audience fragmentation
About creative fatigue recommendations in Meta Ads Manager
Results
Understand fluctuations in ad performance
Specifications for ad performance
About ad relevance diagnostics
View ad set average cost
Troubleshoot
Troubleshoot ad delivery
Troubleshoot ad performance
Troubleshoot conversion optimization
Facebook ad delivery issues with an "Update required" status
Troubleshoot ad limit reached: error 3253001
How to use ad relevance diagnostics
Understand auction overlap
© 2026 Meta
AboutDevelopersCareersPrivacyCookiesTermsHelp Center
English (US)English (UK)EspañolPortuguês (Brasil)Français (France)Español (España)More languages
Log in to Meta for Business

Manage your ad accounts and get personalized support.

Log in with Facebook