URL: https://www.facebook.com/business/ads-guide/update/image/facebook-feed?locale=en_US
Title: Awareness Image Ad Specs on Facebook Feed | Facebook Ads Guide
Rendered: 2026-10-08T07:32:31.020Z
Length: 2310

Get started
Advertise
Learn
Support
Start now
Review ad specifications for ads on Threads and start connecting your campaigns with an active, growing community.
Learn more
Meta Ads Guide

Find the latest Meta ad specifications, formats and placement best practices.

About
Video
Carousel
Collection
Image
Image
Facebook Feed

Feed is the customized stream of posts and activity on a person's home page of Facebook. Facebook Feed can include posts and activity from friends, Pages, Groups and advertisers.

Use the image format in Facebook Feed to show off your product, service or brand in new ways. To capture attention quickly, use movement and sound to show the unique features of a product or tell your brand story.

See  for more information about each recommendation below.

Design Recommendations
File Type: JPG or PNG 
Ratio: 4:5 
Resolution: 1440 x 1800 pixels
Text Recommendations
Primary Text: 50-150 characters 
Headline: 27 characters 
Technical Requirements
Maximum File Size: 30MB
Minimum Width: 600 pixels
Minimum Height: 4:5 ratio - 750 pixels
Aspect Ratio Tolerance: 3%
Panoramas or 360 Photos

Panoramas and 360 photos may be used on Facebook as an interactive experience with some objectives. Facebook recognizes and processes these photos by looking for camera-specific metadata found in photos taken using 360-ready devices.

Learn More
About Image Ads
Best Practices for Image Ads
Blueprint: Tips for Visually Awesome Ads

All ads must comply with our Advertising Policies.

Choose a placement

Select a placement option to discover which objectives are available.

Facebook Feed
Create an ad
Create a mockup
Choose an objective

Select an objective to see which calls to action are available.

Awareness
Choose a conversion location

The conversion location is the place where you want people to take action. For some objectives, the conversion location is automatically selected for you.

On your ad
View available calls to action

Not all calls to action may be available to you, depending on your industry.

Download
© 2026 Meta
AboutDevelopersCareersPrivacyCookiesTermsHelp Center
English (US)English (UK)EspañolPortuguês (Brasil)Français (France)Español (España)More languages
Log in to Meta for Business

Manage your ad accounts and get personalized support.

Log in with Facebook