URL: https://www.facebook.com/business/help/112167992830700?locale=en_US
Title: About the Learning Phase | Meta Business Help Center
Rendered: 2026-10-08T07:30:47.715Z
Length: 5497

Get started
Advertise
Learn
Support
Start now
Business Help Center
Get support
About the learning phase
Chat with Meta AI business assistant for support around the clock
Still need help? Your business assistant can help resolve account issues and unblock your business.
Start chat

The learning phase is the period when the delivery system still needs to learn about how an ad set may deliver and perform. During the learning phase, the delivery system is exploring the best way to deliver your ad set when you either create a new ad or ad set or make a significant edit to an existing one. The Delivery column reads "Learning" when an ad set is currently in the learning phase.

While the delivery system never stops learning about the best way to deliver an ad set, ad sets exit the learning phase as soon as they can deliver stably. This usually occurs after about 50 results in the week after the ad set’s last significant edit. To better understand if you’re getting enough results after making a significant edit, you can view the number of results you've received and your last significant edit as reporting columns in Ads Manager. To see the results your ad set has received since its last significant edit in Meta Ads Manager:

Go to Ads Manager and select the ad set you want to review.
Look for the Last significant edit column. This shows when you last made a change that could reset the learning phase. If you don't see this column, click Columns and add it to your view.
Check the Results column to review the number of results. Note: If you have customized columns, you may need to add these as columns.

Note: For Shops ads, you need a minimum of 17 purchases through your website and 5 through Meta for the learning phase to complete.

Best practices during the learning phase

During the learning phase, ad sets are less stable and usually have a higher CPA. To avoid behaviors that prevent ad sets from exiting the learning phase, we recommend you:

Wait to edit your ad set until it's out of the learning phase. During the learning phase, performance is less stable, so your results aren't necessarily indicative of future performance. By editing an ad, ad set or campaign during the learning phase, you reset learning and delay our delivery system’s ability to optimize.
Avoid unnecessary edits that cause ad sets to re-enter the learning phase. Edits that meaningfully change how your ad set might perform in the future can cause an ad set to re-enter the learning phase. Only edit your ads or ad set when you have reason to believe that the edit should improve performance.
Avoid high ad volumes. When you create many ads and ad sets, the delivery system learns less about each ad and ad set than when you create fewer ads and ad sets. By combining similar ad sets, you also combine learnings.
Use realistic budgets. If you set a very small or inflated budget, the delivery system has an inaccurate indicator of the people for whom the delivery system should optimize. Set a budget large enough to get enough total results and avoid frequent budget changes (which can cause an ad set to re-enter the learning phase).

The learning phase is necessary to help the delivery system best optimize ads, so you shouldn't try to avoid the learning phase completely. Testing new creative and marketing strategies is essential for improving your performance over time.

Learning limited

If your ad set isn’t getting enough results to exit the learning phase, the Delivery column status reads "Learning limited." Learn more about ways to fix learning limited ad sets to improve your performance.

Learn more
About managing ad volumes
About combining ad sets
About learning limited
Common support topics
About advertising restrictions
Business Help Center
Troubleshoot a disabled or restricted account
Business Help Center
About Meta Business Support Home
Business Help Center
Fix a failed payment issue on Meta
Business Help Center
Was this information helpful?
Yes
No
Feedback

More in this section: Create ads from Ad Manager

Basics
About ad delivery
About ad auctions
About the delivery system: placements
About frequency controls for reservation
About pacing
About the attribution setting
Learning Phase
About the learning phase
Significant edits and learning phase
About learning limited
Optimization
About performance goals
About landing page view optimization
Best practices for landing page view performance goals
About maximizing the value of conversions
Set up maximize value of conversions in your SKAdNetwork configuration
Eligibility requirements for maximize value of conversions
Manage
About managing ad volume
Ad limits per Page
Ad account limits
Combine ad sets and campaigns in Meta Ads Manager to reduce audience fragmentation
About creative fatigue recommendations in Meta Ads Manager
Results
Understand fluctuations in ad performance
Specifications for ad performance
About ad relevance diagnostics
View ad set average cost
Troubleshoot
Troubleshoot ad delivery
Troubleshoot ad performance
Troubleshoot conversion optimization
Facebook ad delivery issues with an "Update required" status
Troubleshoot ad limit reached: error 3253001
How to use ad relevance diagnostics
Understand auction overlap
© 2026 Meta
AboutDevelopersCareersPrivacyCookiesTermsHelp Center
English (US)English (UK)EspañolPortuguês (Brasil)Français (France)Español (España)More languages
Log in to Meta for Business

Manage your ad accounts and get personalized support.

Log in with Facebook