URL: https://help.instagram.com/365080703569355
Fetched: 2026-10-08T07:21Z, unauthenticated, crawler user agent, text extracted from the served HTML

TITLE: Help Center
Learn how to share photo and video posts, edit them and add your location.
Posting Photos
To upload a photo or take a new one:
 Create
Post
Select from Computer
Next
Filters
Adjustments
Write a caption
Add your location
Accessibility
Advanced Settings
Turn off commenting
Share
Once you've taken or uploaded a photo, here are some things you can add to your post.
Add effects or filters
Add music
Add a caption
You can share a post with up to 20 photos and videos as a single post, also known as a carousel, to your Instagram feed.
Share multiple photos or videos as a single post
Select from computer
Click a filter to apply it to every photo and video you've selected, or click a photo or video to edit it and add filters individually.
add one location
In your feed, you'll see the first photo or video from your post with a row of dots below it. People can swipe to see the rest of the photos or videos you've shared.
People can like and comment on your post just as they would on any other post. Comments and likes appear on the entire post, rather than on the individual photos and videos that are part of your post.
edit your caption or captions
edit the location
Edit
Done
delete the post
Keep in mind that posts containing multiple videos may take longer to upload. If your post contains multiple videos, make sure you're connected to a reliable network.
Add a caption to your post
Choose a photo or video from your computer's library.
 filters
Write a caption...
add or edit the caption
You can add a caption to a photo or video you've already shared, or edit or delete the caption you originally included.
Add, edit or delete a caption
 Options
uploaded or taken a new photo
Crop a photo
add effects
When you share a photo on Instagram, regardless of whether you're using Instagram for iPhone or Android, we make sure to upload it at the best quality resolution possible (up to a width of 1080 pixels).
When you share a photo that has a width between 320 and 1080 pixels, we keep that photo at its original resolution as long as the photo's aspect ratio is between 1.91:1 and 3:4 (a width of 1080 pixels with a height between 566 and 1440 pixels). If the aspect ratio of your photo isn't supported, it will be cropped to fit a supported ratio. If you share a photo at a lower resolution, we enlarge it to a width of 320 pixels. If you share a photo at a higher resolution, we size it down to a width of 1080 pixels.
If you want to make sure that your photo is shared with a width of 1080 pixels:
Download the most recent version of the Instagram app.
Upload a photo with a width of at least 1080 pixels with an aspect ratio between 1.91:1 and 3:4.
Make sure you're using a phone with a high-quality camera as different phones have cameras of varying qualities.
Posting Videos
Reels isn’t currently available to everyone. Some accounts may be able to see reels, but won't be able to record them.
You can record and edit videos up to 20 minutes with Instagram Reels. You can add effects and music to your reel or use your own original audio.
Record your reel
 Post
 Media
 Add
Cover photo
Trim
If you share your reel to Explore, it can also be seen on the Reels section of your profile.
How long your reel can be
You can record one or multiple clips that add up to 20 minutes. The progress bar at the top shows how long you’ve recorded.
Note: 
saving and editing a draft of your reel
here
In general, you can find a post's likes below it on Instagram.
To see how many likes a post of a video has, first tap the view count below the video. From there, you can see the number of likes a video has and who's liked it.
post with multiple photos and videos
set to private
Video view counts will only show up on videos that were added after November 19, 2015.
Adding Locations
upload or take a photo or video
effects or filters
Add location
Type your location, then select it from the suggestions.
location page
tagged at a location
profile privacy setting
add or edit the location
You can add or edit the location of photos or videos you've already shared on Instagram.
Add a location
To add a location to an existing Instagram post:
Add Location
Edit a location
To change or remove the location of an existing Instagram post:
 Remove
Only existing locations offered can be tagged in posts you share on Instagram. New locations can't be created.
business profile
add an address
add a location before sharing a post
